and we're live are you gonna update the
people out there no are you shot your
phone off no your professional don't
worry sir good to see you and well
what's going on everything it's all
pretty weird out there it is very weird
out there we were just talking about how
weird it is out there before the podcast
about how it just seems like it's very
difficult to keep together during these
times and to keep a reasonable position
and to handle all of the pressure of all
the people that get upset at anything
you do left or right in the middle
centrist your to centrist to to left you
to right you're unreasonable you're too
reasonable you're too nice you're not
nice enough well suddenly I feel like
I'm in a marriage doesn't seem like yeah
it does I think that this is why this is
the era for disagree ability if you're
not easily swayed because you're somehow
insensitive enough that you just want to
keep to first principles whatever it is
that you believe that seems to be the
best hedge against getting swept up in
the madness of others how so
well I guess I when I go metacognitive I
look at my yearning for group belonging
and then I also watch my inability to
belong to groups that say crazy things
yeah and so those are those are two
conflicting feelings I think sometimes
when people look at me they say wow
you're really contrarian and you have an
easy time standing up to you know the
conventional wisdom and I don't think
it's it's it's that true I just think
when those two things fight inside me
dialectically the disagree ability is so
strong because it's protecting a
comprehensive view of the world and so
since everything already kind of fits
together fairly well I would say I'm
much it's much harder to sway me because
the number of things I would have to
move cognitively to accommodate a wrong
idea mmm is quite large
it seems unnecessary but it also seems
like we should be able to disagree on
things and you should be able to point
out with reasonable courtesy that
there's something wrong with someone's
idea and it not become a big personal
thing
but oftentimes that's not the case well
so a lot of the things I think that
we're exploring are what I would think
of as heuristics they're sort of rules
of thumb that worked fairly well within
some domain of definition and we've
gotten so many of these conflicting
rules I mean the rules of thumb
themselves conflict so for example he
who hesitates is lost
conflicts with nothing ventured nothing
gained or something like that sorry no
it's well I forget there's the
cautionary aphorism and then there's the
be bold aphorism and so we don't have a
good way of sorting out conflicts that
occur at the heuristic level and then
you also have heuristics meant for
social cohesion conflicting with ground
truths so this is why biology is always
controversial because biology is a
science that tells us many of the things
that we wish were true or just not true
you know I always think about Ben
Shapiro as facts don't care about your
feelings well biology cares about your
feelings it just laughs at them and
stomps on them and makes them you know
feel very sad well it also tries to
explain your feelings to wait right
exactly yeah but you know if you really
understand biology the world is so dark
and so interesting and beautiful and
crazy that it's very hard to recover
simple ideas about how people should be
once you really realize that are being
Apes has deep consequences yeah I have a
very minimal understanding of biology
but in that understanding I've come to
accept some things just about being a
person that I've never considered before
such as all the different things that
are running your decision-making like
just what we're talking about like the
the need to be in a group and all these
are probably evolutionary advantages to
you know fostering tribal behavior so
you could all work together and feed
each other you know this is always
pulling at you and you know when when
people give people a hard time about
virtue signaling it is kind of gross
when someone virtue signals you know but
we understand what it is it's gross
because we've all done it right that's
one of the gross things about it when
someone is just like really try
hard to act like you know they're
disgusted by the way people behave
because they would never behave like
that and they just want to let you know
I'm above this type of behavior what's
most likely because they weren't above
that kind of behavior at some point in
their life or they're not currently
really above that type of behavior but
they wish they were or the part of them
that's speaking is the part that's above
that behavior but that's not the part
that's gonna be operative after 11:00 on
a weekend at a bar yeah three shots in
all bets are off right heels are off the
wagon so I think we don't we don't see
ourselves we are permanently in our own
blind spot because the part of us that
is you know just and righteous and good
seems to know very little about the
other part what's also this thing this
need to belong and need to be accepted
like we work to be accepted instead of
work to be someone that you would want
to be a part of the group instead of
being like really honest about who you
are and how you think and how you behave
and how you operate in the world instead
of doing that and trying to prove upon
that you try to project an image of this
well then what here's a question for us
why is vice signaling so much more
powerful than virtue signal Vai
signaling like a person who admits their
problems like an alcoholic who steps up
and says I've got a real issue could be
that way or it could be sort of Dan
Bilzerian type fight signaling like you
wanna know what I'm into I'm into hot
chicks weed and guns and I'm making tens
tons of money and showing it off well
he's super honest right now that's one
of the reasons and you he's bulletproof
in that regard but you can't fuck with
him like you can't say hey look at you
you're just a playboy he'd be like yeah
yeah I like girls yeah it works you know
what else right now
I'm nice like he's a nice guy talk to
Dan Bilzerian he's friendly he's not bad
guy no I mean he you know he had he had
this post which was a he was I think
offering a hand to a woman up a stair
and I said come with me I'll ruin your
life but it'll be fun you know it was
just like it's so disarming yeah and I
think that this is also partially you
know a secret to your success which is
that you're a nice guy you're really
into fighting you you know you hunt elk
you're clear about which ones you're
gonna
kill which ones you want based on the
reproductive cycle you're promoting all
sorts of things that people don't want
to talk about - a fairly conscious level
and it's produced an incredible level of
trust in an era where all of the virtue
signaling gives way I mean if you
scratch any person enough below the
surface you're gonna see that they're
really warning you about themselves and
so the people who are the most sort of
self-critical and and this is like you
know I think I brought this up recently
on Twitter about meta honesty where
there was in the Castro in San Francisco
there was a bar restaurant that was
advertising free food
naked servers plus false advertising it
was just fun and playful and as a result
you know you had an instant desire to
eat there and press them yeah so I think
that in this world of virtue of
signaling vais signaling is really the
growth industry and that's that's what's
working for good people because they are
more in touch and you know they are
gonna lie to you and they're gonna do
all the self-interested things but
they're not going to surprise you quite
as much well in the case of dan
Bilzerian I really don't think he's
gonna lie to you I don't think that's
what he's doing I think what he's doing
is living like a guy who's got a hundred
million dollars and happens to be 35
years old and likes to bang hot chicks
and fly around in private jets and live
in some if you see that fucking house
that he's got he just bought some crazy
house in like Bel Air I guess with that
weed money Jesus he's got it looks like
you probably cost 100 million dollars or
something ridiculous like that
it's a fucking insane house but that's
what he likes yeah you know the guy
tricht likes to drive around Ferraris
and and but he's a nice guy so it's like
well where what's what's wrong with this
picture
what's wrong with his pictures he's
doing things I look at this this is his
house what in the holy fuck is that does
he have a golf course on his roof what
is that this is a fucking ridiculous
house look at this fucking place he
gives his address out that his address
it's pretty hard to hide that thing
why the fuck would he give his address
Alex I don't think you can get there
it's in Bel Air
whoa look at this house it's
preposterous anyway
this is what he likes but it why is that
bad I mean we only have a hundred years
if everything goes perfect I know what
do you give a shit like why does
everybody ship but they do give a shit
they give a shit a lot because for a lot
of folks that are working you know
making a good living making you know 50
grand a year or whatever that's
completely out of the realm of
possibility right and his lifestyle
wouldn't be sustainable for them I mean
yeah because he's taking real risk
there's no question about it when you
you know you get everybody stoned and
then you take them to fire automatic
weapons out in the desert oh yeah that's
real risk and also the gambling he
doesn't a lot of like crazy gambling
well but this is the thing about the the
relationship with the unforgiving this
is partially why right you're UFC and
jiu-jitsu life is that when you have a
relationship with the unforgiving you
can say you know that guy that guy
doesn't really know what he's doing but
then you're you're in the ring you know
you're the man in the arena and and you
find out very quickly whether or not the
trash-talking you know paid off or it
didn't and I think that many people have
no relationship with the unforgiving I
can take them out on a hike into you
know the let's say the Trinity
wilderness and then two hours in they'll
just sit down and say I want to go home
right you're thinking like okay you're
you're signaling something but there's
there's no car service and there's we're
not calling a helicopter you know it
just yeah there's this if you live in
the social layer you're surprised by the
existence of the unforgiving but yeah
well one on one hand I want to support
people's ability to do whatever the fuck
they want on one hand I want to support
someone's ability to sit in front of a
computer and whether you're working
you're writing code or you're writing a
script or you're just fucking playing
video games yeah I want to support your
ability to do whatever you want to do
yes you if you have the means if you're
not you know with your families not
starving this is what you enjoy doing
why do I care but it as a person who's
experienced a fair amount of adversity
especially self-imposed adversity mm-hmm
I would I would tell you that you would
benefit from it I've benefited from it
and I think you'd benefit from it too
you don't want to be that guy the two
hours into the hike says I want to go
home you don't want to be that guy you
want to be that person just says well
this is what we're doing
and I'm gonna figure out how to do this
and I'm gonna show character and I'm
gonna I'm gonna be proud of myself at
the end of this I mean I might have to
walk for six hours and when it's all
over my legs might be shaky and I might
have to sit down but that Gatorade is
gonna taste so good it's gonna be like
the greatest Gatorade of all time cuz
you drink it you be like earn the shit
out of this all right you're gonna feel
it and I think we learn about ourselves
through especially self well any kind of
adversity you know look I'm coming off
of being evacuated from the fires which
was for me not that difficult you know
I'm not poor I got a hotel I brought my
family to the hotel we got safe got my
dog to the to the podcast studio and
everybody's alright you know but for
those firefighters I mean 12 hour shifts
battling the blaze for people who lost
their homes some of them tried to save
it there was a story about a guy in
Malibu that climbed on top of his roof
with a hose and tried to fight off the
fire and he got severe burns and he's in
the hospital and I mean it's raining Ash
and and and and these chunks of fucking
fire on people these little embers
they're falling from the sky and this
guy's trying to save his house I mean
that guy literally went through the
fires he'll be a different person after
this and no question we've been in
something of a reality drought the
number of people who have very little
relationship to reality I mean you know
I used to live in Cambridge
Massachusetts and you you'd come in from
Boston and there would be the signs that
freshed killed chicken like no bones
about it man fresh killed chicken but
like chicken McNuggets nobody quite
knows what what part of the chicken is a
McNugget right it's just some
abstraction that comes to you and so I
think we've gotten very divorced there
are all these layers of indirection
between us in the world and when a fire
happens it's so overwhelming and we were
just choking on the SF smoke in the Bay
Area there's it just it gets real after
having been unreal for a very long time
yeah it's unavoidable it makes you it
makes you buck up like you got to get
out of there like we got evacuated
Thursday at 2:30 in the morning we were
like we gotta get the fuck out of here
like it I don't give a shit what you
leave behind just go keep your body and
go everything else
it's either replaceable or you don't
really need it that much anyway just
fucking get out of there and when you
see that fire raging over those hills
and helicopters are dropping water on it
and then another house explodes because
the gas line gets hit it's just you you
I saw that you see that you go oh
there's this is not enough people in the
world to save you there's not enough
fucking firefighters or cops there's too
many houses there's too many people and
a bunch of these houses are gonna go you
got to get the fuck out of there and but
there's a certain I was with a bunch of
my friends from my neighborhood and my
friend Tom Segura and his wife we all
stayed at the same hotel right and we
felt we there was like a tangible sense
of community well this is that that I'm
I love this point let's imagine you go
for a wedding and they house you with
your third cousins people you barely
know if you're lucky enough that the
sewage system breaks and like stuff is
leaking out of the ceiling and you guys
all have to do heroic crazy stuff to
save the house you're gonna be closer to
your third cousin than you are you know
to your uncle right and this is this
very strange feature of the world that
kind of a random arrival of diversity is
very often what Bond's you to some
particular human being and if you avoid
adversity in groups your whole life you
probably don't realize that you're never
fully activated as a human being or
particularly you know if if men I think
don't form groups that in some sense
fight or battle their contests together
so there's this very weird fact that
apparently humans are the only species
that organize contests in teams you know
this is an intrinsic feature of being
human contests yeah do other animals
have any contests well just if they spot
chimps you know we'll have these
incredible raiding parties and they're
very methodical and they'll they'll
attack somebody else but I don't think
that they practice it it's like okay
you're Red Team chimp and you're routing
chimp well we're the only ones that
do stuff like that that can communicate
right like dolphins can communicate but
they don't do stuff like that right or
you have individual sparring like you'll
have two bears learning to play with
each other because it's safer to play
with your brother and childhood than it
is to just suddenly show up against some
big-ass bear and have to compete for
females
I had William von Hippel on a couple
days ago and he's the author of the
social leap and we were actually talking
about this about one of the things that
made human being successful as we came
down from the trees and started walking
around the grasslands is our ability to
organize and to work and coordinate
together yeah well in the you know like
African wild dogs are fairly good at
this and you watch what they do in their
spare time very often they just take the
piss out of each other so that they
actually come to each other's age eight
at a very high level in times of need
but like you know when you're just
hanging out around the fire hose fire
house you're really just giving each
other shit all the time right and so
there's something about the way in which
we play being kind of divergent from the
way in which we behave when we actually
just need each other and it's like you
you need to be on that line you know
let's say you know throwing burlap bags
and I just need you to do that thing and
we're both facing something together
doesn't know it doesn't have to be
fighting in a militaristic situation but
I do think that this is one of the weird
things that's going on with all of this
emphasis on care and feelings is that
often men need to give each other shit
in order to form very deep bonds right
if I can't tease you right and if I
don't know where the line is like there
is this line which is like dude that was
way too far right we all know that those
lines exist and we sometimes have to go
up to them and sometimes we have to
experiment by going over them but if
somebody says I don't like the way
you're talking that seems very
insensitive my response is well you're
gonna keep me from forming a deep bond
with that person you just don't know
that that's how we do it yeah they're
shielding they're putting up their
shield right and often is you know to
project a certain image to you
they want to be taken seriously they
want some respect they can't deal with
you goofing on them that's true and
goofing can go wrong but yeah but I
think that one of the things that I've
been fascinated by is where did all this
madness come from and I increasingly am
wondering whether it comes from social
and emotional learning that started to
be taught in schools around emotional
intelligence so this whole idea of EQ I
think had a lot to it but not all the
bugs were worked out because a lot of
things that kind of are in the
neighborhood of bullying might be
actually intimacy building mmm right and
so if something turns into some super
disgusting deadly hazing ritual we all
say what the hell are you people doing
but on the other hand if it's sort of
three clicks back from that line and
it's you know there was mild discomfort
we humiliated each other a little bit
yeah and now we're friends for life then
you know the fear of the hazing ritual
gone wrong may actually stop people from
ever actually making the really deep
bonds to last the life well isn't it
like everything else some people are
good at things and some people suck at
it some people are good at being silly
with their friends and some people go
too far I mean youyou experienced that
like I've had friends who experienced
that where they do a podcast and on the
podcast they fuck with each other and
they'll have someone come up to them
that they don't even know right off the
street and immediately say something
like ruthlessly insulting to them and
they're like what the fuck and you know
yeah man you do that show your podcast
all the times like okay you're doing it
wrong I don't know you we're not friends
we're not bonding here you're walking up
and saying something mean calling
someone fatso exactly yeah it's like
they didn't just not good at it and
oftentimes that's some sort of a sign of
social intelligence a lack of social
intelligence a lack of I mean who knows
what's going on in their home might just
be bad information from parents and
their growing up in this environment of
just very low-level social skills and
now what we're doing is I mean I think
that you're spot-on we're now going to
try to readjust everyone around our
weakest players
so now the idea is that because that can
be said in a horrible way we're not
gonna let anyone say anything remotely
adjacent to it yeah you can't do
anything that would be a precursor to it
so you're just gonna say well you see
that little patch of bad cells over
there we're gonna cut off your leg in
order to stop that cancer it's just like
could we do something a little bit more
surgical well and also there's some
things that your there's a reason why we
have this instinct to mock things yeah
it's because people get out a lot and
then they demand too much goddamn
attention and they become a problem and
this is a I think I believe this goes
back to hunting parties and hunter
gatherers were the one person who just
wanted too much attention like you
you're fucking it up for this group
effort and that's kind of what happens
socially when people claim these very
ridiculous victim statuses right you
know and there's a picture that I put up
on my Instagram a couple weeks ago of
this guy he had this crazy makeup on and
he had this ridiculous description of
himself like non-binary queer that also
identifies as a Muslim and he was
talking about quantum physics that
quantum physics got helped him
appreciate his queerness
and I looked at that I said okay maybe
or maybe you just fucking crying out for
attention and all I wrote was makes
sense definitely doesn't seem crazy and
people got mad at me for that for
something so obvious I looked I just
peered into the fucking deep dungeon
that is the comments section for a
moment and I saw people like you would
think that the people that are most
susceptible to suicide you would leave
them alone but your cruelty is you know
you're exposing your cruelty like listen
that's silly that guy needs better
friends your friends are you gonna tell
you you're silly
that crazy makeup of your scene this guy
no look at this a British Iraqi gay
non-binary and also identify as Muslim
listen you need too much goddamn
attention that's all I'm saying I'm not
saying you're a bad person you should
kill yourself you shouldn't be queer be
whatever you want to be but if you're
going that hard right that hard to
define yourself yeah like that is Nydia
shit that's fucking annoying but your
point your point is is that you have to
titrate the negative feedback yes right
and so what you did was you gave him a
small dose
look court you might want to
course-correct a little bit
well the idea that there's any course
correction you're not sitting there
celebrating this right well that's
that's the thing yeah yeah you're
supposed to celebrate it I'm supposed to
celebrate so many things yeah well you
know what you can celebrate it that's
okay but you shouldn't get mad if I go
oh that might be a little nuts
cuz it's obvious little nuts it's a
little nuts to paint your face with
glitter it's a little nuts it's a little
nuts if that was just a regular person
who's like hi work at jcpenney my name
is Wendy and this is what I like to wear
on my face like okay Wendy's a crazy
bitch look at Wendy go look at Wendy
look at her face what is she doing I
don't know man
she got fucking crazy glitter and our
hair is 15 different colors yeah man
okay look at it this way I have this
weird thing which I sometimes it's
called maquila phobia the fear of
cosmetics really oh man lips what kind
I shall know it's like a guy laughs well
this is the thing is is that sometimes
it looks somewhat normal
and then suddenly doesn't integrate and
the person just looks like they've got
crazy stuff stuck to their head yeah and
you're like you've gots crazy stuff
stuck to you well that's how I perceive
it now here's the question I can't be in
touch like it can't be Eric's got a
problem with makyla phobia it has to
never heard that word it's freaking me
out
it has to be yeah it has to be Eric
can't accept people who wear makeup huh
and and my question would be from first
principles how do you tell who to have
sympathy with because this has been
somewhat debilitating for me really yeah
sure so it's been a real issue like
you've struggled with it yeah struck
weave you struggled with the feeling or
struggle with the fact you'd have if
everybody actually experienced if you
remember Tammy Faye Baker right so she
was famous for freaking people out
because she had no concept of how much
coming up is too much just too much yeah
now what if somebody looks normal and
then you turn around and suddenly
they're Tammy Faye Baker and you never
can predict when that's going to happen
so that's like an interesting question
about do we accept the person who I
don't know why I have this it's just
that some
thing in my mind well because you're a
logical person and you're looking at
this Warpaint that people are putting on
and you don't understand the desire to
do this well I do understand you do but
you don't understand actually doing it I
don't understand why it looks normal
like I have the feeling that to other
people it looks very different than the
way it looks to me right well they've
just accepted it maybe sometimes I
accept it and then suddenly you know I
shake it it's like you're shaking out of
the movie like you see a movie where the
suddenly the mic is visible from the top
oh it's a movie and and that but anyway
we all have these weird quirks the
question is with whom should we be
sympathetic and with whom do we do we
say well you're being judgemental with
me it's women's shoes that have gigantic
heels though stilettos that they could
barely walk in yeah that one freaks me
out
it freaks me out because I see women
walking and I'm like this is so crazy
this is a choice that you're I mean I
can't imagine I'm paranoid I guess maybe
I've seen too much physical conflict I
can't imagine wearing something that
would physically compromise me to the
point where I literally can't run away
right cuz you can't run away in those
things if you're in like stilettos like
these little things that you walk around
in and your feet are all smushed in
you're you're basically doing tiptoes
everywhere you go and you fuck you have
to be killing you by the other night
right right you're not running away
there's a wolf chasing you or some shit
there's something going down you're not
you're not getting away it's just it's a
weird disease like the desire to
lengthen your legs right and to give
this graceful up here what's called
lordosis behavior lardo says lordosis
I'm learning so much today okay so high
heels were originally developed for men
to appear taller not sure if it was to
appear taller only or if it was for
riding
I can't reverse it yeah maybe if a lot
of people don't know cowboy boots yeah
the reason why they slip-on like that is
when the horse bucks and takes off your
boots fall off they're supposed to I
didn't know that yeah that's the whole
idea behind them the reason you slip on
and slip off and they have
that he'll okay there's that wooden heel
that he'll slips into the stirrups so
when you get when the horse bucks you
don't want to get dragged son you wanted
that shit to just fly all right and then
you're on your back going oh look at
that horse go and then you go pick up
your boots because they've fallen off
and the fucking horse is gone but at
least you're alive oh that's that
expression he died with his boots on if
you yeah if you hit well not really I
think that's like a gunfight type deal
but I think if you get dry mean if you
drag the horses are gonna run over rocks
and shit you're done people die all the
time that are wearing regular shoes that
shove their feet in the stirrups and
then you're stuck that's why cowboy
boots come off like that yeah I remember
when I used to ride horses we'd have the
the guy leading the trail would like
take us up to a gallop and suddenly say
emergency dismount was really terrifying
yeah and you know you'd have to do it at
speed very very quickly but I think that
high heels got taken over by women
because a lot of the things that we
claim that we like about heels that is
the you know I do it for height like the
way it makes the leg look probably
secondary to the curvature of the back
and the way in which that is typically
associated associated with the sexual
receptivity yes I was that particular
posture that the heel connotes and so
the way I read it is that the cost of
the heel is part of the communication in
other words I'm willing to do something
that is clearly not comfortable or for
my benefit in any other way so much so
that you can tell that I must be
interested in sending a signal 100% yeah
so the well but you have to deny the
signal too so part of the signaling is
to say oh these are actually my most
comfortable shoes they always say that
girls are hilarious they're so
comfortable these are so comfortable
right like how is that even possible
those aren't Crocs yes but but but the
deception has to be part of oh now I'm
like picturing Crocs with heels that was
really weird
well the deception has to be you have to
you have to decide that you're not
ridiculous no it's a shared deception
yes because then then as look as the guy
I have to say
oh that's so interesting yeah but that's
a lie well we're all lying but it's
mutually understood as a lie yeah but
when the girls are sick yeah girls could
say these are so comfortable because
they're not killing them because they've
accepted a higher level of pain
tolerance with Footwear than men have
like if I had to just jam my feet into
something pointy yeah like some point
yes spanish dancer type shoes that would
hurt after a while everywhere thai I
won't do eyes I hate those things
yeah okay so that's some kind of
uncomfortable thing that we do to
ourselves as men yeah well I used to
have to wear one when I drove limos I
think well I've definitely worn one
since then but very rarely area where I
could kill you pretty easily with a tie
like if someone has a tie on and I grab
a hold their time yeah boy unless you're
a lot bigger than me I might kill you
you got a hole your tie tie is a hard
thing to shake loose it's really strong
like you could you a good tie is not
gonna rip yeah someone gets ahold of
your tie at the knot yeah just twists
and holds on to you all they have to do
is hold on to you grab an arm and just
wrap their legs around you and hold on
to that tie you're a dead man you're
dead you're giving them a weapon yeah
he'll you all the time all right you've
convinced me no more ties I just grabbed
that and just fucking twist you don't
have much time men you you don't have
much time to get this arm off your neck
such a UFC figure out it's a jujitsu
spin because UFC you don't wear clothes
to be able to grab a hold of someone's
clothing like like a person with a
leather jacket if you're talking shit
and you have a leather jacket on you're
with a guy who knows judo yeah you are
beyond fucked you don't hit this this
guy might as well have cannons coming
out of his body like you're you're
doomed okay 100% doomed he's gonna grab
that leather jacket and basically this
handles he's gonna throw you up in the
air and he's gonna hit you with the
world the whole world is below I mean
he's gonna drive you into the world and
you're so fucked and you don't even
realize it so how often you vent have
been fist fights never never man I don't
know I don't want to have nothing to do
with that I just get away I would never
want to get in a fist fight no I know
is fascinating to me about this sort of
the world here it's always talking about
fighting and what can happen but it's
just in our world there's like almost
none of this in you know relatively
boring white guy middle-aged you ever
grown WorldStarHipHop that shit's all
day every day there's plenty of videos
you moles and that's what it never most
of time nothing happens right but the
one time when shit does happen if you
don't know how to defend yourself you're
really fucked this is this is true but
the thing is is that in all the
practicing that you do you're also
exposing yourself to the potential for
injury oh yeah so there's a question as
to whether you're safer if you spend all
of your time in this kind of well what
if something happens I want to be
prepared but the preparation for it is
itself potentially fairly hazardous
that's unquestionable but isn't that
just like the guy who sits on the couch
it never goes into the woods cuz he
doesn't want to get tired I know it's
very similar like here we are I'm 51
years old and I'm in and it all works
tada yeah so even though I've been
injured I'm right here everything works
oh yeah but you also got out of shit
fixed what what if the UFC thing was
like bold and interesting when you were
a young guy do you think you would have
I would have 100% done it and I probably
would have a much harder time having
this conversation that's right yeah for
sure yeah so I mean I think I think
you've hit the sweet spot where you got
the skills you've been in a training
idiom you really know what you're
talking about and you're getting
front-row seats but not actually having
to have your brain particularly take the
pounding there's no getting away from
that that is the unfortunate reality
that every fighter accepts there's no
getting away from that there's there's
an absolute possibility and it's not
just your head it's also your joints the
big part is your back and your neck I
know many guys that have neck
impingements and disc herniation xand
fused
neck discs and then nerve pinch where
their nerves are impinged to the point
where they have atrophy and their arms I
know several guys who have that where
they have one arm that's smaller than
the other arm and it severely impedes
their ability to move and they used to
be world champions to guys that have
been on the show bas Rutten Pat moe
two of the greatest of all time both
guys have one small arm in one
regular-sized arm because of neck
impingement so their nerves are
literally pinched down by all the
swelling and scar tissue and damaged
discs yeah well since we became friends
I started just casually looking at this
world and it's utterly fascinating I
mean there's there's nothing like it
well the jiu-jitsu world I think you
would there's there's two different
worlds right there's the MMA world which
incorporates all the different martial
arts and then there's the jujitsu world
and the jujitsu world I think you would
like out yes you would love it because
it's basically but to call it chess is
not quite fair right because it's more
complex than chess there's much more
degrees of freedom or so high but it's
also easier to win if someone's better
than chess cuz like you even if someone
is fairly competent in chess will take a
few moves to beat them and jiu-jitsu if
someone's fairly competent the other one
is a master it'd probably crush you very
quickly but the when you watch two
really high-level guys trying to set
each other up it's this crazy rolling
exercise and leverage and position and
unless the knowledge of moves that Eddie
Bravo versus yeah it's hard to even know
what's going on it's crazy if you don't
know it's one of my more difficult
challenges of being in a commentator is
when the fight goes to the ground
explaining to people watching at home
what he wants to do right now is good
his right leg over his arm and as soon
as he does that now that arm is stuck
he's in trouble right now yeah you know
I'd like to try to explain that to
people so they could follow along go oh
I see I see and he's gonna grab that
he's gonna arch his back and he tapped
and people go oh and it gets people
really excited about jujitsu because
they see that and go oh this is like
really complicated like he's got there's
like a dance he's doing the other guy's
trying to resist it the first time I saw
the Gracie breakdown of particular
fights where they've committed to memory
every move yeah it's like replaying the
great games of like morphine chess and
you're just thinking wow okay there's
the Evergreen game there's the immortal
game and that that to me is fascinating
but it's actually more interesting to me
in
UFC arena because of the fact that
that's only a component and that it's
yes just what I didn't understand was
how much we could get close to
unrestricted fighting and still have
people fairly dependably survived with
minimal obvious disfigurement there is
even there are some we could even be
safer if we eliminated weight cutting
the weight cutting is the number one
health issue in the sport in my opinion
yeah number two is the brain damage and
the impact and you know broken bones and
things along those lines but the number
one is weight cutting because it's so
unnecessary it's such a such an issue
that needs to be addressed because these
guys want to compete at the highest
weight possible so do you know how it
works no ok so if you were gonna compete
in the 170 pound division but you
actually weighed 190 what you would do
is you would wait until you would follow
a pretty strict diet keep your
bodyweight in your fat a certain level
and then when it comes down to a few
days before you would dehydrate yourself
pretty radically yeah and then rehydrate
yourself scientifically using the crow
there's a bunch of guys like george
lockhart guys who are experts in this
and then they'll give you the exact
right amount of nutrients right amount
of potassium and zinc and they want to
replenish all of your electrolytes and
get you in a perfect balance but you're
still compromised and if you don't have
a guy like a george lockhart or someone
who's a real expert in nutrition and
understands biology and can get you back
into that position you're most likely
going to compete compromised but you can
accept that significant compromising
because you're going to be a bigger
person than the person you're fighting
but they also like in boxing in
particular the vast majority of deaths
have occurred in the lighter weight
divisions and a lot of it is not just
because of the head trauma but because
its head trauma to someone who's
dehydrated that's interesting yeah it's
like it's it's it sucks and it's it's
contrary to what martial arts are
supposed to be about martial arts
supposed to be about skill for skill
it's not supposed to be about cheating
and the cheating thing is like you're
dehydrating yourself it's extension
cheating
you're saying you're 170 pounds but
you're you're like if you say this the
170 pound champion and get on scale
he's 193 what the fuck's going on this
isn't a hunting seventy pound how
frustrating if I want to meet you in a
different class like I wanted to fight
you my whole life
but we're
we're really separated well you can lose
weight the right way look if somebody
wants to compete at 170 pounds in my
humble opinion they should actually
weigh 170 pounds my friend cam Haynes is
a ultra marathon runner and one of the
things that he does when he gets ready
for ultra marathons is he lose his body
weight but he doesn't have any body
weight to lose
so he'll he'll burn 3000 calories and
eat 2,000 calories and that's how he
lose his weight he lets his body eat
itself so he gets down to the 160s and
that's when he runs these gigantic long
races like 240 miles but I know he's
done this you can do this like you don't
have to dehydrate yourself but they
choose to dehydrate themselves because
they replenish and then they get much
bigger when they get inside the Octagon
when he's 165 he's actually 165 that's
just what he weighs and that's a the
best way to run 240 miles so he does it
through discipline but these guys that
are doing it and it's not their fault
because it's already been established
it's a part of the sport it's been there
for years and years and years and it's
it's sanctioned cheating and everybody
does it and it's the worst part of the
sport because it's really damaging to
your kidneys yeah terrible for your
organs your your body starts to shut
down when you do it too often your body
doesn't want to lose weight anymore so
it starts to really hold on to that
water and guys fall out let's sleep and
pass out and bang their heads off walls
and fights get cancelled like probe like
championship level fights get cancelled
because guys blackout and crack their
head off the wall and this is this has
happened in the in the UFC before it's
just super super unnecessary and
unfortunate and part of it is because
there's not enough weight classes
there's like you know there's 155 then
there's 170 the difference between 155
and 170 is not just 15 pounds because if
you actually weigh 155 and this guy's
dropping down to 170 that motherfucker
could be 190 plus right and he's just
figuring out a way to cut weight to get
down to there and that happens all the
time so you're dealing with you know it
could be 2530 pounds difference between
you two guys if you're if you actually
weigh what the weight class is when you
get into the Octagon so people are
forced to drop weight they're forced to
go lower if they want to compete at a
world-class level they're forced to take
this extra risk and it could be
mitigated it could it could all be
stopped by hydration test the the UFC
could step in all the athletic
commissions could step in and say enough
is enough you're gonna fight it wet your
way and we're gonna give you more weight
classes so you can figure out what's the
wait for you to be best at and I hope it
doesn't take someone dying before they
figure this out because it's one of
those things that people have done like
circumcision they've done it forever so
they just keep doing it but if they just
started doing it tomorrow people be like
why did you cut that baby's dick are you
fucking crazy well I've always cut
babies dicks I've been cutting babies
dicks for years like this is right it's
any more of a Yiddish ex you get used to
it well it's not just Yiddish I'm
Catholic my dick got cut it's like
practiced yeah across the board under
the guise of you know being sanitary
it's prevention of AIDS there's all
these stupid reasons to cut dicks but it
really it's just a tradition that
doesn't make any goddamn sense now it's
not the best analogy to weight cutting
the cutting dicks I do want to pick up
on an analogy which I'm curious about so
when you're trying to describe the
ground game yeah it's super tough for a
lay audience because the the picture
doesn't necessarily match what you're
seeing because the the layer of
expertise makes a bunch of random arm
movements and and head movements and hip
movements yeah into something else we
have the same problem in like math and
physics where everybody wants to know
mmm what's going on with that thing and
then when you I've been listening to
like the physicists on your program I
don't that you have many mathematicians
but it's so confusing to figure out how
to talk to the world about things that
people everybody wants to know about and
I was just curious as if you saw a
parallel in those two things though
certainly very high art forms yeah Sean
Carroll has done a really good job of
trying to explain things neil degrasse
tyson's done a really good job trying to
explain things glass I saw the
explanation of gauge symmetry Lawrence
Krauss yeah on your show which is like
from to my way of thinking one of the
most important principles in the world
yeah still have no idea what the fuck he
said exactly well like well I've read
his book yeah and after I read his book
that was the number one question I had I
said
I need you to explain to me what is
gauge symmetry what does that mean it's
so weird that he didn't I don't think he
expected gonna just bust it out yeah I
don't think so either that's it but I
think that it's so hard to like okay
here's one of my well we'll get back to
Gail symmetry maybe but like when people
say the universe is expanding right what
the fuck does that mean every smaller
every smart person says into what right
you know
like it's the universe what is it
expanding into right and where's it
going right and put it it doesn't make
any sense because the linguistics of the
universe is expanding isn't really what
the but so you're saying the matter in
the universe is moving outwards is that
what the universe is expanding now what
it means is the infinite universe is
getting more infinite or no so the first
of all was that they took did you say
that yeah miss the Teva is kicking in
yeah so if you think about this bottle
okay right
it's the slices of the bottle that are
expanding but if you think of the bottle
is the universe the Bott the bottle
isn't expanding hmm it's just the
cross-sections that are expanding and so
that's what they really mean what they
really mean is something like the
space-time metric on space like
cross-sections has its volume form when
integrated is is higher something like
that mm-hm
some mathematical statement but the
universe is expanding is not helpful to
me like if I wasn't able to read the
math I would say I don't get it well I
don't get anything quite honestly I'm
not being self-deprecating I don't get
the Big Bang yeah I don't get it at all
well okay here's what somebody should
tell you okay there are two kinds of
singularities when you try to solve n
Stein's field equations for gravity so
gravity is a thing
Einstein tells us pretty much what we
think gravity is it's the curvature of
space and time and when we try to solve
his equations we get these black hole
singularities which called Swartz shield
singularities well then we get this
initial singular
which we associate back to the Big Bang
with the Friedman Walker Robertson model
in some sense those singularities are
indications to us that we're not at the
end of physics and that bang Stein's
equations aren't the real story and so
rather than sort of saying they're a
pretty good model up until this point
and then we kind of really don't know
what happened then we have the
observational thing that we would map to
the Big Bang and then we have the model
thing that we would map to the Big Bang
and to be honest with you we pretty sure
that our models don't make sense past a
point and now we're having this
conversation past the point where we're
pretty sure they don't make sense that
would be much more honest to me but
because we have this desire to to blow
people's minds gratuitously and
everybody wants to know how did
everything begin and where are we in who
are we and we want to sort of answer
more of that than we probably should hmm
that's an interesting way that makes
sense let me give you an alternate spin
on quantum mechanics okay so typically
people will say you know the
mind-blowing thing about quantum
mechanics is that it's probabilistic and
that is kind of mind-blowing but if you
actually say it differently you say look
in classical mechanics like Newton stuff
that we feel more comfortable with you
have good questions and bad questions
like if you and I go hang out at the
beach and I say to you hey where is that
wave concentrated at what point does
that wait the wave live you look at me
and say it's a wave it's not
concentrated at a point it's all along
the shore so as a classical physicist
you'd say that's not a good question
Eric and when I ask you a good question
like how fast is that wave front moving
you know along this trajectory or
something you can give me an answer and
it's definite so as long as you ask a
good question in classical mechanics you
get definite answers when you go to
quantum mechanics and you ask a good
question
technically that means that the state
vector is an observable of the hermitian
operator representing the question
nevermind funny thing happens you get
deterministic answers there's no
probability involved whatsoever so if I
ask a good question in quantum mechanics
I have the same property that I do when
I ask a good question in classical
mechanics I get a definite answer
there's no probability when I ask a bad
question in quantum mechanics
instead of like classical mechanics that
says you know screw off I'm not
answering that that's ridiculous it's a
bad question quantum mechanics says you
really want to ask me a bad question
alright I'll give you maybe this answer
and maybe that answer and here's the
probability distribution that I'll
actually give you either of those two
answers and what's more I'll even kick
it into the state that I that you asked
about so for example if you ask where is
that wave concentrated so like let's say
this is my coffee cup and I drop a
little drop in the center of it that
creates a circular wave that radiates
out and I say where is the wave
concentrated well at one second it hits
the coffee mug let's say is a big coffee
hub and at one second after that it's
concentrated again in the center so that
becomes a good question
only when the wave becomes reconsecrated
in the center of the cup right but if
that wave were a quantum wave I could
ask where is the wave concentrated and
with equal probability
suddenly the wave will concentrate at
some point along the circle that
represents the wave right so what would
your answer be then well the point would
be it'll concentrate it one of these
points around the circle at random with
equal width equal probability and
suddenly the wave will concentrate
randomly when it's a quantum question so
this is why quantum mechanics is so
confusing quantum physics are so
confusing to people well cuz they hear
that and they go okay this is just
confuse this when in my head like jello
well that's the thing but the point of
if I if I have a wave and I slow it down
I can look at a wave in a coffee mug
right and I can see that if I ask where
is the wave concentrated you would say
it's concentrated at like half an inch
out from the center of the cup yes no
say no no not what ring is a
concentrated or what exact point it's
not concentrated in an exact point but
that wave in quantum mechanics which is
not concentrated at an
act point behaves differently when I ask
a bad question so the point that I'm
trying to get across is good questions
have exactly the same properties in
classical mechanics and quantum
mechanics there's no introduction of
probability theory the weird question is
why is quantum mechanics answering bad
questions
well maybe even weird a question is not
just why's is it's quantum mechanics in
an adolescent state of understanding I
mean it is it part of the problem that
they don't know enough yet and they're
trying to like explain what they do know
what they can prove on paper and for a
person like me like well what do you
know and they're like well we know
probabilities we know this we know that
and a person like me who doesn't have
any studying in it just goes love what
does that mean well that's great so like
let's say we were having a conversation
about genetics and we were looking only
at the DNA and we didn't see epigenetics
right in terms of like methylation
patterns then you'd you'd shove
everything on to DNA and maybe you had
no concept of like development and the
the model would work up to a point would
explain why you have blue eyes or brown
eyes but it wouldn't explain all sorts
of other things and so now then you over
over develop that model so I think that
what you're saying is really Einstein's
intuition which is I'm not saying all
right Stein I'm not saying that this is
wrong I'm saying this is incomplete and
then when we finally get the answer
we're gonna say oh that's why we used to
think of it in those crazy terms hmm so
back to gauge theory yeah gauge symmetry
what the hell was that all right well
here's that here's the craziest thing
okay there is a very confusing visual
image of the fundamental unit that you
need to appreciate what gauge symmetry
is all about and I had Jamie loaded up
under the tab called planet hop and this
is going to each opf h OPF what the fuck
am i looking at you are looking at the
most important object in the universe
what that looks like some trippy
screensaver on your laptop take another
puff my friend because it's worth it
this is what you're looking at is a
principal fiber bundle and it's an it is
the earth those are the continents well
yeah that's the cool part about it which
is this is very confusing to figure out
what you're looking at but it's finite
in other words if we stay it for an hour
or two on this and we actually answer
all your questions you will actually
know what a principal bundle is and you
will know the arena in which gauge
Theory exists for folks at home that are
just listening and they what the fuck of
these guys talking about what is the
name of this video Jamie it's not a
video it's a small file on a page I
typed in plain at hop and it was the
first thing that showed up on math dr.
on Oh dot e-d-u
okay so extended thing planet h o PF for
anybody who wants to look at this if
you're just listening and you have no
idea why I'm freaking out on this this
was done by a friend of mine named R or
Barna Tong I actually coded the same
thing up
strangely enough didn't do it as
brilliant a job of coloring it and it
looks amazing by the way
so okay what you're looking at is a
two-dimensional sphere that is the
surface of the earth where an extra
circle is included at every point on the
surface of that sphere which you're now
visualizing and that extra circle which
would be called the fiber when you take
the totality of all of those circles
together one for each point on the
surface of the sphere they create
something called a three sphere that is
all the points that are one unit of
distance away from the origin in
four-dimensional space so that three
dimensional sphere is the analog of a
two-dimensional sphere sitting in
three-dimensional space so think about a
caramel apple
if you've ever made caramel apples you
get a disc of caramel and you wrap it
around the sphere that is the apple
surface right so this is the three
dimensional version of caramel wrapped
around the
three dimensional sphere sitting in four
dimensional space now do you understand
any of this Jamie
I'm trying well dude it's totally trippy
right yeah and so we're not gonna get it
completely during this session however I
think I lack the tools I don't think so
if it we lack the time so the first
thing is you are finding out that one of
your friends thinks this is the most
important object in the universe and
you've never even heard of it right much
less know that there's one visual
example what's it fuck how's this
happening I know exactly
it does look fucking crazy well okay
this is what was discovered in the
mid-1970s as the connection between
mathematics and different what we call
differential geometry and the discipline
of particle theory so two guys Jim
Simons the world's now the world's most
successful hedge fund manager and cien
yang a person who might art arguably be
the world's first or second greatest
living theoretical physicist had a lunch
seminar and they said why don't we
figure out how do we talk to each other
and what they found out is they both had
developed a version of this picture and
independently independently so it was
the Rosetta Stone that unleashed a
revolution so when Lawrence Krauss was
talking to you about gage theory he he
was saying things about chess boards and
you color it white and you color it
black and super confusing to me I would
rather your people be confused about an
actual example of the object on which we
do gauge theory that you can visually
see hmm right now if I started to tell
you what gage theory is it's pretty
simple so here's and here's a
description I never hear anyone say when
you're doing differential calculus I
don't know if you remember differential
calculus you're trying to figure out the
slopes of lines you draw instantaneous
rise over the run so that always makes
sense to people okay I figure out how
fast it's going up versus how fast it's
going across
but a question arises which is where do
you measure the rise from so for example
if I say what is the height of Mount
Everest Jamie will say 30 was 35,000
yeah something crazy like that well
let's just go a thousand say base well
we're gonna get an internet connection
yes what do you think it is I don't know
I can't remember I would say it's 35,000
what do you think that was 29 29 Oh
tonight no okay what's the highest was
the highest one is it key to all right
key to the second right is it has
Everest the highest yeah okay so okay
Everest so 29 would you say 29 29 89
what unite above what sea level okay
where is Mount Everest located the
Himalayas what is that what see there's
no ocean area right so right like we
snuck in it's above sea level and
there's no ocean so we start from the
center of the earth we have this
structure called the geoid which is the
interpolation of sea level as if see
love as if the earth was only ocean and
there was no tide right and as if
there's some sort of uh so we snuck in
the reference level that's my point is
that we teach these kids to repeat why
it's 29,000 and change above sea level
and there's no sea right so that
reference level is the magic of gauge
theory right which is that we measure
the rise over the run based on a custom
level so a level that we all agree upon
so for example let's imagine that you
and I are in some country experiencing
hyperinflation right and I'm your boss
and you say dude I need a raise I said
well look I've told you I would hire you
for you know ten thousand dinars a month
and you say yeah I said well your salary
is constant I took the derivative of it
I've paid you ten thousand five month
ten thousand this month so you're
getting the same amount derivative
equals zero it's constant salary now you
have to come back at me in calculus and
you say no I don't like your notion of
the derivative because what you're doing
is you're measuring the absolute number
of dinars that
you're paying me but what I want to do
is I want to measure it in purchasing
power because I'm losing money every
month that you don't increase my salary
so I now come up with a version of the
calculus in which my key salary is not
constant because it's being measured
relative to purchasing power rather than
absolute units that's gauged thing is
that you're bringing in a reference
level that does the differentiation so
you're measuring rise over run by
customizing the problem so these were
two different applications of the
calculus the cheating employer says I
want to go with constant dinars the
gifted employee says not so fast
I know gage theory I want to use a
custom reference level which is
purchasing power right so it's like
sneaking the geoid into Tibet to measure
Everest I've got my custom level does
this make sense to you yes it makes
sense right but now explain it say what
he said the way I mean we would need a
new reference of what what you want to
measure what would a new conversation to
have a rough like a flat level right
right I guess yeah it would be really
difficult for me to recall a day from
now maybe have the wheat pop a mushroom
cap see what's up it's still in
reference to quantum physics like how
you would you gauge symmetry well but
let you would let's look at some more
cool stuff okay at the visual cortex
because everything that we can do
visually should inform what we can do
linguistically so you should push
everything into the visual realm that
you can even buy that like I just showed
you the hopf fibration which is the only
in some sense the only mature picture I
can show you of a principle fibration in
geometry or physics that is honest and
has the full complexity it's got a
certain kind of knotted 'no stew it it's
got something that we would call
curvature and it is visualizable and so
it would be better that we spent you
know a day or two on this most
an object which we think reality is
based around and that you visually got
comfortable with it and then you said
okay now tell me again what gauge
symmetry is and then instead of Lawrence
talking about this chessboard and the
colors and all this stuff by analogy you
would actually be seeing gauge Theory
visually like I could program a computer
and have done so just show you visually
what a gauge theory is and it takes some
time to sort of understand what the
tripi pictures are but if let's bring up
the Escher staircase and Jamie has a
nice wrinkle on this that instead of
using MC escher staircase he's got this
animated guy who just keeps going down
hmm all right now what's going on with
those stairs now the stairs are sort of
an optical illusion because I obviously
can't just keep going down but then you
build these system systems like
rock-paper-scissors what's the best
thing to throw in rock-paper-scissors
well it depends on what you throw well
but we should be able to agree that rock
is better than scissors rock is better
than citizens of papers better than rock
right so you go around that thing and
now the the point is that you get to
like rock is much better than rock right
yeah that seems crazy now that concept
would be what we would call hollow no me
the weird sentence rock is better than
rock because of that going around the
loop why rock is better than rock I
don't get it well rock scissors is
better than paper right paper is better
than rock so by transitivity rock is
therefore better than rock because you
went around the loop and came back to
rock it's like an I'm a math yeah yeah
or if like if you're if you're changing
currencies and you don't spend any of it
because you keep you lose using your
credit card by the time you come home
you have more money than when you left
because the exchange rates did some
things so that when you changed into
each currency you somehow got richer but
by saying Brock is better than Brock
you're denying the fact they're exactly
the same well no they're not you're not
addressing I just want to believe that
the linguistic fallacy right so the idea
that this system here so those stairs in
engage theory would be these reference
levels for the derivative mm-hmm and you
can have situations where the reference
levels don't knit flatly together
right mm-hmm and so by virtue of that we
would say that the system has curvature
curvature is the assuredness of of these
better than transitive statements what
we're looking at folks for people just
listening we're looking at if you've
never seen those s-sure edges those
sketches they're very strange because
what there are is a bunch of staircases
that appear to always be going downhill
even if one of them is above the other
one
it's very strange very strange and this
one we're watching an animated guy roll
down this staircase constantly even
though it really looks like somehow or
another it must go up somewhere but you
don't ever see it going up but it's also
a factor of the illusion of perspective
and how it's drawn and and you know
playing games with lines exactly but if
you do this very weird experiment which
we didn't know about until the late 50s
called the Aronoff Boehm experiment if
you run a electric current through a
wire that's insulated it appears not to
have any electromagnetic field outside
of the insulation however if you do some
sort of quantum interference experiment
you can tell that there's current going
through because it affects the Fage
phase shift let's say of an electron
orbiting that insulated electromagnetic
system so nobody thought that was going
to happen because they thought well an
insulator would keep we thought the
electromagnetic field is what determines
the shift in the electron but it's
insulated so there is no electromagnetic
field to worry about it turned out that
it wasn't the electromagnetic field
alone it was some previous geometric
concept which was called the
electromagnetic potential that
determines something about the phase
shift so this issue staircase in the
case of electromagnetism it's like the
photons are the analog of those steps
they're partially would determine the
derivative operators these reference
levels and again in our discussion of
the am i paying you the right amount in
a hyperinflationary economy
so all of these things you're trying to
figure out well that's an optical
illusion but that effect actually occurs
in some systems not as an optical
illusion yes right so this weirdness
requires a fair amount in terms of
either study of math or learning
visualizations but there's no way to
achieve it in my experience with
linguistic communications like all the
stuff that gets said about you know the
universe is expanding or let me tell you
what it h theory is and why there's a
reason it's confusing it's cuz it
doesn't make any effing sense right I
see what you're saying
sort of but so this is this is like what
Fineman said if you think you know
quantum physics you don't know quantum
physics well there's there some of that
like there's you know one of the most
important things in the world is this
thing called a spinner like the
electrons and the protons correspond to
things called spinners and the average
person has no idea that spinners exist
what's more spinners have a property
that when I tell it to you
linguistically won't make any sense all
right
okay let's do this with coffee okay
yeah thank you sir
perfect all right here's the problem
okay hold your cup up sorry from the
bottom and here's the first challenge
without spilling it okay I want you and
without readjusting your grip on the
bottom of your cup I want you to turn
your cup 360 degrees no no sorry turn
your fingers should not change on the
cup okay turn the cup 360 degrees
without spilling it and try to take a
sit
okay that didn't work no now without
coming back how would you take a sip if
I got it all the way around that way
yeah mr. jiu-jitsu man yeah no no you're
gonna do it all right you ready yeah
okay here we go
oh you're gonna go around circle 360
okay right now I'm screwed if I don't
bring it back underneath oh I see so
that system required 720 degrees of
rotation unexpectedly oh you just keep
going right
okay now the idea that there are objects
that don't come back to themselves under
360 degrees of rotation but require 720
is probably something you've never
thought about before in your life
right but without that you wouldn't have
the Pauli exclusion principle you
wouldn't have the stability of matter
and this thing is called the Philippine
wine dance Jamie do you want - that's
not very seductive Jeff it seems like
some very odd ethnic dance yeah but like
maybe you could do 11th planet jiu-jitsu
here we go so this spinner is one of the
coolest most important objects anywhere
and it was discovered to be important in
physics by a guy named Paul Dirac right
it's fun okay so this 720 theory is
entirely responsible for the world that
we live in this is so bizarre don't
knowbut an animation and nobody knows
about it
right like unless you're hanging out
with physicists they don't tell you that
electromagnetism has to do with the fact
that there's a secret circle at every
point in space and time that's invisible
to you they don't tell you that there's
stuff that requires 720 degrees of
rotation they just say mind-blowing
stuff about whoa so what is happening in
is 720 degrees of rotation in the
quantum world there's an object that is
requiring this just the way the cup
armed system requires 720 degrees for
what options it's called a spinner
and that spinner is how we model the
electron the neutrino quarks all that is
spin oriole matter sir that's a good
long pause I like it
yeah and what where does this fit in in
our model of the universe like what is
the function of this why is it there
what is it how do we know it's there
well we know it's there because when
Dirac so there was this problem with
like the Schrodinger equation
Schrodinger equation takes one
derivative in terms of the direction of
time and takes two derivatives in the
direction of all the spatial directions
but because Einstein called us that
space and time are woven together for
the theory to be relativistic you need
the same number of derivatives of time
as of space because space-time is sort
of one kind of semi unified object all
right that means you either have to
boost the number of derivatives of time
up to two to match the two derivatives
in the directions of space or you have
to knock the two direct derivatives in
the spatial directions down to one
derivative to get it to be equal now One
Direction gets you to something called
the klein-gordon equation what Dirac did
is he took a square root of the
klein-gordon equation to get these
spinners so he had these numbers he
didn't understand at first that he was
gonna get kicked into this world of
spinners he came up with a square root
equation in which a times be thought to
be numbers was not equal to B times it
was like equal to the negative of B
times a so it was like what two numbers
when you multiply them matter in which
order that wasn't numbers it was
matrices so this was one of the great
insights you know rival tyne Stein in
terms of the depth of what it told us
about the universe most of us haven't
really heard of Paul Dirac we don't
realize that he has one of the three
most important equations in physics now
in when you say three most important
important in how it's applicable to
everyday life or important in how it's
given us an understanding in quantum
physics or important how its understand
it it's it's understanding is
significant
quantum physics men are talking about
bedrock reality like you and I are
having a conversation and if your a
matrix fan and what we might call the
construct okay what is the construct
made of made so the way I do it is I
think of it as a newspaper story
there's where and when did it happen
there was who and what was involved and
there's how and why okay so where and
when is space and time
clearly the who and the what to me let's
say the who is the spin Oriole stuff
it's like electrons protons neutrons
quarks the stuff that we're made of and
then you and I are only able to see each
other because we're passing photons back
and forth which are forced particles
they're not spin Oriole they come back
to themselves after 360 degrees they
don't require 720 now so this is sort of
the you know if you're going to go to a
play it have the the dramatic personnel
of the play given to you at the
beginning so this is what this universe
is it's a story about space and time
where and where and when about what is
in that you know like who are the
players and what equipment are they
using
that's like bosons and fermions and then
there's the how and the why which is the
equations and the lagrangian's that
govern the rules of play you know so for
example if you and I you know start go
to the beach and we've got a ball and a
net and you think we're gonna play
volleyball and we actually somebody says
no no we're gonna play CPAC tuck row
which is like volleyball played with the
feet in a martial art style which is
awesome yeah we've showed a video on
that recently sleeves from Thailand er
yeah they're they're really good at
hazing it's amazing it's like ballet
martial arts
soccer is volleyball happening one thing
we should we should do this as a nation
that's a different set of rules for a
ball and a net and two teams that you
could have done it one way is volleyball
and you could have done it another way
is CPAC Tucker where you're using your
feet and on your hands
mm-hmm so those that's sort of the
breakdown of what a physics theory is
you got to tell me where and when you
got to tell me what's in the game and
you got to tell me what the rules are
and that's what this place is and so
theoretical physics
is the most interesting of all of these
fields to me not because it speaks to us
about our daily lives because it speaks
to us about well where are we where is
where is this thing taking place so it
seems to me that there's a small number
of people like that are studying this
stuff that are they're getting past
biology they're getting past gravity
climate change all those different
variables that we're constantly dealing
with and they're they're getting to the
very things that make everything yeah
and what is it under the wiring lift
lifts up the board what's going on in
here right it's like getting to a
computer down to the 0 & 1 logic gates
right yeah so that thing we've got three
or four equations we've got three or
four different kinds of objects in the
system we seem to be and people are
gonna not like what I'm about to say but
screw them we seem to be almost at the
end like these equations are so
beautiful they're so tight that it's
almost most mysterious because it feels
like this thing like a movie that ended
prematurely how so well when we found
the Higgs particle at the LHC
there wasn't anything left that needed
to to close to explain the system we
know that there's dark matter out there
that we don't understand we know that
there's dark energy out there that we
don't understand because of astronomical
observations but all the stuff that we
know about when you look at it and
collide it at high energies and figure
out what mutates into what there's
nothing missing anymore so it's like
it's like you have got this odd thing
where everything got very very simple
very unified and it felt like we were
going to get one or two more giant
unifications and the whole thing would
be tied up with a bow and right now we
just don't have anything that is needed
to close the system so for example when
you have radioactive carbon decay what
you see is that one of the neutrons
flips into being a proton and it spits
out an electron when it does that right
so it's like it's like a trans nucleon
it shifts what it is okay that electron
doesn't carry off enough energy to
explain how energy would be conserved
there was something missing so this guy
Wolfgang Pauli said I bet there's a
particle that's neutral so we can't see
it that we won't leave a track in a
cloud chamber it won't have any effect
that we can see electromagnetically but
it's carrying away some of the energy
because I'm not going to give up an
electron servation of energy just
because this particular process doesn't
seem to conserve it and sure enough
there was the sneaky particle that was
spiriting away some of the energy of the
system that couldn't be seen because it
didn't interact electromagnetically and
it didn't interact according to the
strong force the only thing you could
use to trap it would be the weak force
and the weak force was so weak that it
was very hard to see it okay well
there's no neutrino that I know of left
to find there's no thing that's missing
in our standard model and I'm just not
satisfied nobody's satisfied that the
play is over why would the play be over
just because we've discovered all the
neutrinos well know it's that we had an
easy job when there was stuff that was
missing then you just hypothesize I bet
there's some invisible thing that's
carrying away some stuff let's go look
for something that's hard to see so they
find it and so they'd find Higgs so they
find the Higgs they find the neutrinos
they find work gluon plasma well I
wasn't gonna go there but I was gonna
say that they found like alternate
generations of matter so you and I are
made out of the first generation of
matter but there could be like alternate
Joe Rogan it made out of
second-generation matter or third
generation we don't know of any
generations beyond these to hold up yeah
what are you talking about
so like the electron okay has it has a
relative called the muon that behaves
exactly like the electron except it's
heavier and the up-down the up and down
quarks that make up protons and neutrons
have relatives called strange quarks and
charmed quarks so there's like a second
copy of Lego that has all the same
properties as the first copy of Lego
except it's at a different mass level
denser but it's a almost identical copy
nobody wanted this thing so the famous
joke is that there was this guy Isadora
Robbie who was like a you know kind of
an ethnic Jew in in New York and when
they found the second generation of
matter he responded as if it was a group
of people at a deli and he said who
ordered that you know and so that's like
that's the joke in physics who ordered
that nobody knew there was the second
generation and then like then they hit
their self for the head you know there's
a third one too everybody's just think
what why where are these things coming
from so the fact that you don't know
this like what a profound disconnect
that you're having all these physicists
on the show and these are the basic
secrets that were these are rock solid
these aren't this isn't speculative
multiverse string theory woowoo
Schrodinger's cat stuff you know this is
like this is ground truth and we don't
know it and we don't know it because
nobody will show you a picture of the
hopf fibration or there's a concept
called the group which is how we think
about symmetry that no mathematician or
physicist can you know go a day without
talking about groups almost and we act
as if it doesn't need to be taught in
high school like it's - it'll blow your
mind we're not going to teach you the
group's even exist so we've built the
professional version of the subject
around objects that we don't even tell
you exist when you're studying in school
so though if you think about the portal
story in childhood there's the story
about either it's a rabbit hole or a
looking-glass or a wardrobe or platform
nine and a half or whatever these things
are I don't know what the Harry Potter
version of it is but
how do I get from the world that I'm in
to this new amazing world and even find
out that it's there and that's what I
think theoretical physics has failed to
do it hasn't built a portal for most
people to even understand what the
issues are what are the objects what is
the game how close are we to
understanding what existence itself is
which I think we're very very close and
the square-root this was I was gonna say
before about durock is like the most
profound object in mathematics to me and
the reason is is that when I ask you
what is the square root of negative 1
that is a question that can be posed
entirely within the familiar so the real
the real numbers you're comfortable you
know you owe money you have money so I
need plus plus one and minus one square
root understand what what times itself
equals my number and when you say what's
the square root of negative one there's
no answer inside of the real line but
there is inside of this extension called
the complex numbers and so it's like
you're in flatland and you're trying to
figure out is there anything beyond
flatland so the great thing about the
square root is it's a question you can
ask in flatland that gets you out of
flatland
Jesus you confuse the shit out of me are
you with this
I understood that part of it yeah I
gotta stood that part the complex
numbers thing got weird wind ok algebra
so when I so when I'm taking like
rotations of the coffee cup where my arm
isn't involved right I say okay is there
a square root of that rotation like what
does that even mean dude all right well
now I put my arm into the system and my
arm plus coffee cup gives you spinners
like oh dude I did not even know that
spinners were here I did not know that
any object required 720 degrees of
rotation so the cup arm system we just
exhibited it you don't need to learn
Clifford algebras or all of this extra
jazz that would get you to spinners
mathematically but you need to figure
out how do I discover the wor the hidden
world and think about this from the
perspective of like ayahuasca somebody
takes ayahuasca and they have no idea
that their brain is capable of this
alternate state or LSD
or five Meo DMT all of these things are
like panic rooms in the mind where if
you lived in a house for 20 years you
think you know your house and then one
day you pull an old musty book off the
shelf and suddenly the bookshelf swings
open you know and it's like holy crap
there's like a second home inside of my
home well that's a lot of what
psychedelics are like psychedelics are
like square roots in that they're
portals they can get you from the place
that you know into a place that you
never imagined could exist do you think
that the teaching of groups and a lot of
these concepts in high school would
facilitate a better understanding of it
from the general public and adulthood in
the yes hell yeah and it would what do
you think is the resistance to this it's
just too complex are not applicable to
jobs you know is that the idea behind it
it's not something that you use in
everyday life so that it's just too
weird to think about the fact that
there's cousins to the electron that are
fat yeah it's worse than this
bodybuilder cousins yeah what a blanket
made out of strange quarks yeah one of
your cousins is made out of laughs no I
think it's much worse than this I think
that first of all people are terrified
of just how smart children are and the
differences between children have to be
buried so some children of graded
abstraction mm-hmm and a lot of the kids
were great at abstraction or learning
disabled according to the teaching
system now I personally think that most
learning disabilities of a particular
type are actually teaching disabilities
people don't know how to teach the
smartest kids and groups and things
you're gonna lose some people because of
the level of abstraction but you're
going to get other people who have never
been able to buy a base hit in
mathematics suddenly start over
performing so the problem is that when
you teach this stuff it's very
disruptive to notions of the hierarchy
have you thought about what are the
causes of these different levels of
perception is it education is it
genetics is it environmental is
some sort of chemical balance of the
mind like what what do you think causes
people to be more perceptive to some of
these concepts it's a good question so
the thing I just showed you with the
planet Earth in a way that you've never
seen it before mm-hmm I know of only two
people who've ever created that image
well I'm one of them Dror Biran Atanas
the other maybe there are many more but
I've never heard it or met them the
number of people who first of all know
what the hopf fibration is I would guess
is if you really deeply know it is a few
thousand people in the world so if none
of those people are gifted at trying to
visualize or none of them care and none
of them program computers the number of
people who could present that to the
world is so small it's such a tiny
priestly class that your odds of getting
anyone figuring out how to make this
understandable are very small so we're
talking about a very small priesthood
most of whom are too busy trying to do
new research to want to care to
communicate many of whom are not gifted
communicators many of us realize that we
don't fully understand these things let
me I can I can show you spinners
mathematically on a page but if you ask
me in my darkest moments do I believe
that man really knows what spinners are
I don't think so this site there's all
this stuff that to me looks like the
monolith in 2001 it's just too freaky it
comes out of nowhere and it's at the
core of reality like if you really want
to blow your mind look at a tiny number
tiny collection of these objects
principle vibrations spinners
exceptional lis groups this ei 248
dimensional monster this what is that
there's a 248 dimensional set of
symmetries which seems to live only to
be the symmetries of itself where
everything else seems to live to
symmetrize something else and no
colonist we might have to spark that
joint back up again let's do that
there's this
you know there's this thing called the
tits Freud and fall magic square after
this guy named Jacques teeths and these
guys figured out how to generate these
sets of symmetries of dimension 52 78
133 and 248 we don't know why they're
there they're like the platypi and
echidnas of the mathematical world
they're just different they don't seem
to relate to anything else that we that
we know yet and that's what's so
fascinating about them and these are
discovered by people that are trying to
figure out the nature of reality they're
discovered by people are trying to find
more of these bizarre equation who's
who's discovering these and what's the
impetus like what what is well you ask
very natural questions like you've
probably seen you ever played Dungeons &
Dragons as a kid luckily no okay oh well
you were beating people up I was now
beating stop it I've seen one video
anyway you had these died right and you
have like the cube die the tetrahedral
die what is this chamber beyond
space-time oh this is my 8 D surface
princess my arch-nemesis when I was
telling the story last time their
interest over October yeah Garrett Lisi
Bobby took me into the jungle to meet
this sort of differential geometric
warlord who lives in the north of Maui
and the jungle yeah yeah we don't
remember this I do now yeah you got off
my story man see right yeah I'm sorry
that's all right go for it here we are
again if I go so whoa what is that well
this is this is based on the eight
dimensional I'm almost certain this can
be based on the eight dimensional root
system so inside of the 248 dimensions
there's an eight dimensional doughnut
called a torus like an eight torus and
it generates this pattern and that
pattern in some sense encodes the
instructions for building the 248
dimensional object so somebody probably
pushed an eight dimensional thing into
two dimensions for your viewing pleasure
and does this accurate like when you're
looking at this this image that we're
seeing does that make sense to you I
mean
I could make I can related things that
make sense to me if the idea is you know
can I look at it the way I'd look at a
barcode right say Oh tie it unsent it no
no idea
but but this is an accurate
representation if you're looking at it
in two dimensions yeah so what what I'm
what I'm trying to say is you don't even
know to worry about this pattern right
because you've never heard that these
things exist and this is like the
closest that we come to you know genuine
mysticism where we have these objects if
there are aliens they know about I ate
that because II ate or the aliens what
ei tis the alien yeah I've been I mean
we'll go to this later I don't want to
interrupt your story again I don't have
an idea so what I'm trying to get at is
this is the majesty and mystery of being
a mathematic mathematician or a
physicist these findings so if let's
just say by dungeons dragons you're
given these dice where the normal die is
always a cube but the Platonic solids
you can have an octahedron tetrahedron
dodecahedron icosahedron all these
things there's an analogue of those five
platonic solids in the next dimension up
which I think are called convex
polytopes so each one of those objects
has an analogue one dimension op but was
found out in the late teen 1800's that
there's a new platonic solid in
dimension 4 called the 24 cell you want
to bring up the 24 cell let's find an
animated video of somebody rotating this
thing so like this is something that
Plato knew nothing about we don't really
understand what it's doing there in four
dimensions these are like communications
from the cosmos so this is like when
Jodie Foster was in the movie contact
and they were getting them signals about
how to make the time machine baby are
the portal machine yeah but this is on
Athena right this just stuff just
doesn't come with an instruction manual
so part of it is you can prove that
these things are there and you don't
know why they're there and some of them
touch everything and some of them have
yet to touch almost anything and it's
like a communication from pure design
that there is so much beautiful
structure and so much grace in the
universe that we're just what the fuck
is this doing here what is it
right well what is everything right what
is the whole thing no I mean look if you
accept three-dimensional space let's say
this glass right
if you accept this glass I understand
that a circle can spin the glass the
circle circles worth of symmetries tells
me what to do to spend the last that's
not that confusing right why is there
something with the analog of a circle
where a circle I would call one
dimensional because it's got one degree
of freedom
this thing is 248 dimensions and it
doesn't seem to live to symmetrize it in
the jargon we would say it doesn't have
a defining representation of lower
dimension so normally you have something
of low dimension and you say what are
its symmetries and the symmetries are of
higher dimension this thing seems like
the first thing it wants to symmetrize
is itself so it's kind of self
referential it's kind of onin istic so
it's like a zero point of creation
that's poetic language I would groove on
that after 11:00 p.m. but I wouldn't
call it that right now I would say it's
like I was trying to pick somebody up
hey zero point of creation right that's
a sexy word yes actually
but like if we're saying the Big Bang
existed and that means some point in the
history of the universe it was this
really tiny thing and it decided for
whatever reason something happened right
and it became this enormous thing
sure impossibly enormous thing yeah it
had there had to be a point where it
started right but what originally so
what I would say is we can competently
take that story back to a point mm-hmm
and then we have to say we don't really
believe that we have any insight beyond
that point but people want to go there
anyway we absolutely know that it was
tiny yeah small like smaller than the
head of a pin the whole thing I'm always
uncomfortable saying settle but like you
can you can say consensus you can say a
lot of
stuff about very early very small and it
could that could turn out to be wrong
you know possibly long ago 14 billion
years ago in our minds as far as Huff
for a guy like you mathematics you see
it on number numbers of paper it all
computes you see the numbers 14 billion
is a number that makes sense flush but
conceptually yeah like for a dummy like
me 14 billion is like if I really if I'm
being honest do I really do you think I
really have an accurate understanding
what 14 billion and no but Steven
Weinberg doesn't feel 14 billion either
right but you know where 100 yds is so
Hans you can feel that right I see a
hundred yards I'm like that's too far to
shoot a bow yeah like you got to get a
little closer to be so you have some you
have some kind of an intuition pump well
you know distance it's a rational
distance that you see in a daily basis
right a hundred yards is a long distance
a mile gets a little weird like is that
a mile away how far is that
oh it's six miles away wow I didn't
think it was that far right there's
there's weirdness in distance right but
when you get to a hundred and forty
million miles okay yeah I give up but
yeah it's a fort I get the teal right
here yeah I get fatigued by that stuff
so other people get energized like yeah
man it's humbling right
well the lemon is the concept of
infinite right like this is one of the
things that Krauss said or maybe with
Sean Carroll that said it's really not
that we know that we can see 14 billion
years ago right it's like but that's
just as far back as we're capable of
seeing right now and even if we did go
further the light is actually moving
slower like you wouldn't be able to see
it
right right right so you have this thing
about with the space-time metric which
is sort of how things are feel like
they're moving apart yeah just you know
Einstein said four degrees of freedom
plus rulers and protractors equals
space-time mm right so a space-time
metric is a collection of rulers and
protractors so I can do length and angle
including length in the time direction
and that generates a derivative operator
which we talked about before which is
rise over run real
to a custom reference level the custom
reference levels generate the Esther
staircase that we did and that generates
the curvature tensor which generates
gravity so strangely with all of this
kind of like woowoo stuff that we've
been doing we just came to a much better
description of what theoretical physics
actually looks like it's four degrees of
freedom plus rulers and protractors
gives you derivative operators with
custom reference levels the custom
reference levels don't knit together
that leads to an Escher staircase the
degree of Usher nests is the curvature
tensor the curvature generates the
gravity which is what's keeping you and
I in our chair I really appreciate the
urine just that you're explaining this
in a way that you hope that someone can
understand what another problem another
physicist but you're explaining it very
well that the problem is for someone
like me I lack the tools to put it there
I don't have enough open slots for these
concepts so it's like it's like if you
were explaining to me complex arguments
in French but I didn't speak French so
you're saying you know Bonjour that
means this and then you're explaining
all these other words and then he's
throwing it all together I'm like what
and then it's cultural references then
you have to deal with the fact that
there's like some historical precedent
to certain types of behavior that I
don't take into consideration because
these are French people that have lived
in this way okay but look well that's
nothing compared to later ah let's drop
some so you do this thing about like
well for meathead like me well I
definitely immediate help stop it juice
and know I know me better than you know
me that's true but you're also less
honest than you think on this particular
topic it's part of your charm now look
when we hang out we hang out usually in
a comedy club or at somebody's house
right we don't like say hey we're gonna
take the afternoon off and we're
actually gonna learn theoretical physics
right right so when I went to it I did
stand up for the first time as I told
you in Arizona I was there oh it was
insane it was crazy
yeah you trying to explain fucking
quarks to people there's some real humor
in that if you could boil it down yeah
three quarks go into a nucleon yeah
there's like a way to do I don't know
there's a way to do it okay well who was
the guy who did that some guy was doing
how many he was Bryan Callen was doing
quantum jokes what was he saying
do you remember forgot he just he had a
bunch of words that he did very very
quickly and it kind of hung together I
was like wait what yeah that sounds like
Bryan yeah he reads a lot but it's a
clever boy when I when I had to do my 10
minutes of stand-up man is that Kraft
it's it's deep it's hard because you
have to it's not just like telling jokes
at a party it's really you have to
measure the way the audience's laugh
comes whether you're taking them along
are you gonna divert all sorts of things
that I never thought about before
do you know how you feel when you talk
about the Hopf thing yeah that it's a
part of everything it's one of the most
important things and yet very few people
know what it is maybe a thousand people
understand it on the whole world
what's odd is that number is probably
identical to the number of legitimate
professional stand-up comedians in the
world as well when I say legitimate I
mean someone who can craft a new hour
every two years it does Netflix specials
the headlines all over the country it's
small good travel all over the world and
do stand-up it's an insanely small
number of humans and not only that my
guess is that the number of people that
you think are at the very top of that
craft like when I really think about who
really knows theoretical physics right
it's time it's smaller than 50 yep yep
guys that I would pay to see live or
women that I'd pay to see live it's less
than 50th less than 50 yeah and so part
of our problem is that all of the stuff
that humanity is developed is often
resident in a tiny number of minds and I
feel very vulnerable about that
theoretical physics has been faking that
it's in a healthy state for a long time
we are so vulnerable on the doorstep of
actually cracking this puzzle in my
opinion well that's where our
comparisons end because pretty much
anybody could do stand-up if you put
enough time to it if you're silly if you
figure out the craft but what you guys
are doing is not just really rare but
also the the barrier for entry like the
cost of entry is exceptionally high like
you have to spend an
Norden in amount of time studying and
understanding this stuff just to get to
a base level of what you've been able to
explain
you've been explained like some really
difficult concepts to the layperson
that must have taken you fucking eons to
learn and understand all your study of
mathematics and of geometry and of all
their but I'm an impostor how so well
I'm not a physicist right but you
understand it maybe you don't practice
physics no no I understand it well no
it's it's something more audacious than
that which is that when you see you know
at 10,000 hours only sign you know only
those who've done their 10,000 hours can
come in mm-hmm
my middle finger goes up like I bet it's
not 10,000 hours or if it is 10,000
hours I'm willing to get 80% of the
juice in that orange with like 10% of
the effort well the 10,000 hours thing
to me is it's cute but it doesn't factor
in for phenom x' it doesn't there's
there's a lot of people that come in to
anything whatever it is with some
natural abilities that are pretty
undeniable you know that's a weird
that's a weird equation but like take
something very simple like the harmonic
yeah yeah most people don't know that
that sweet blues sound on a harmonica
comes from not using it the way the
manufacturer said which is called
straight harp and using it instead the
way african-americans figured it out
which is it's much cooler to base it
around a hole that nobody was expecting
to draw rather than for blow and that
gives you a seventh chord that sounds
like sweet blues music if you start
something that all right
[Music]
that was you gotta move but what's the
traditional way of using it what would
it sound like like that would be Carmen
pouring it's far april music whirring
it's fuck white people need damn it
white people at Carmen's alright but
look not my point
who knew when you get one of these
things as a party favor as a kid there's
not somebody who says hey don't do that
thing we put your mouth over it also you
know but who knew that's the cool well
there's yeah but like the idea is that
there's something called tongue blocking
there's something called cross harp and
there's something called the one four
five progression with a scale that no
music teacher ever taught you in grade
school and piano alright so there's four
secrets and now suddenly the world opens
up I mean and when I opened for Jordan
Peterson Dave Rubin invited me and they
said you know why don't you play a
minute worth of harmonic at the Masonic
theater so for twenty-five hundred
people I became Dave Reubens talking
harmonica monkey and so I opened for
Jordan Peters and I said you know rule
number zero life is too short not to
play the harmonica everyone should learn
to play the harmonica or know why
they're not doing it there's this great
thing in the Caliphate song we'll win
the game or no the reason why if you
don't play the harmonica it's so nice
it's so simple so few people do it
there's so small number of secrets you
have to have a reason because I can feed
myself I can get housing shelter I can
meet people anywhere in the world all I
have to do is carry around a piece of
plastic with some metal on it or you
could be annoying like a lot of people
like turn that fucking guy off why is he
playing that goddamn harmonica
I want to hear that put it back in your
pocket go to your next trip you already
painted in these people's estimation
that's attention whore what's worse a
harmonica or a guy brings a guitar and
starts singing folk songs at a party on
the animal house effect right yeah beat
him over the head with the guitar yeah
he can shred he's gonna be fine it's
great if you're looking to hear someone
shred that's not okay all of these
things are like
options or financial options you can
exercise them or you cannot exercise
them you have to exercise but I mean
there's an equal number of things that
people would say that are like the
harmonica like you should be able to do
slam poetry but everyone should be able
to do slam poetry if you can't do slam
poetry I can feed myself I can house I
can I can do slam poetry I'll show up at
a party and everyone wants to hear slam
poetry is that true you just trying to
beat me oh you're so adorable it's
fascinating to me that's that harmonicas
are this little tiny thing that people
of faith like there's not other ones
right there's like other things are like
these big old trumpet looking things
yeah like it harmonic is this little
thing yeah like how many little things
do you blow well that's that are that
powerful in terms of like the kind of
music that it makes exactly is that
weird it is weird okay there's no like
balls right it's always that it's always
that little candy bar looking thing like
there's nothing like no ball harmonica
is there anything comparable in terms of
like musical instruments that is that
little no that has that kind of sound
no that's what it's optimized for but
it's not weird like there's two buzz and
there's other things that are similar
and then you get to like trombones and
trumpets everything kind of makes sense
then you got this little fucking things
candy bar thing right it's a mouth heart
a mouth harp ooh what's that other one
they buy my own knowing knowing knowing
these two dues nose juice timey movies
is that what it's called morning morning
morning now there's like a weird word
for it there's a weird word for that
thing all harp jaw harp maybe I'm
thinking of a complete okay yeah yeah
that's one yeah like there's that's
another weird one you could play the
spoons
yes bones are good well how about that
fucking Australian one well they blow
into that big teacher did yeah
that one's the most retarded OHS guy's
trip and when they came up with that
sound oh boy white like you're even
that's like true Tuvan throat-singing
thank you if you're on Haight Ashbury
and there's a dude and he's got one of
them Diggory dudes out and fucking hat
you're supposed to throw some money in
there
Satta respect this guy brought a goddamn
digger he do to the corner well you know
the coolest recent one it that is crazy
give me some noise from this
motherfucker just give me a little bit
[Music]
that is DMT music I know if your trip
involves and somebody plays that you
it'll take you to a new dimension so
you've never accessed what's going to
paint on for it to and everything oh
that's like well on a tree actually it's
quite interesting the scent they're
scented I'm a church around the
ayahuasca stuff has a lot of really
interesting music to listen to it
straight it's a kind of mind blowing
well there's also there's I don't know
it's that one or the something do
vegetal there's one of those similar
Christian based dimethyltryptamine
ayahuasca type churches that they sing
songs about Jesus they trip balls and
sing songs about Jesus and what's really
weird about DMT in particular and I
guess you could say the same of
mushrooms but mushrooms apparently when
it's synthesizes it's real similar in
chemical content to what
dimethyltryptamine is I'm gonna fuck
this up but I think it's N and
dimethyltryptamine is dimethyltryptamine
and then when it's synthesized by the
bot when the body processes psilocybin I
think it produces something called
forfox floral oxy and and
dimethyltryptamine i think it's real
close I might have fucked that up but I
think it's so close that it's like
they're cousins
okay so there's something with about
music in these things and one of the
best ways to get out of a trip if you're
if you're really tripping balls with
mushrooms is to sing your way out of it
really you can sing your way out of a
bad trip you can actually control the
trip with good music and one of the
things it's really constant with DMT is
these eco rows that the shaman will sing
yeah and these eco rows with the like
thimbles and like a little bit of drum
and these like really rhythmic singing
it makes the hallucination dance in like
a really obvious tangible way it moves
around itself and it changes and guides
the trip well that's what I've my
hypothesis been that it's sort of some
sort of yes that's one right there this
is one I've personally experienced I've
actually tripped listening to this song
and it was like the
geometric patterns these entities that
seemed to be conscious they were like
moving around this is a guy this is the
ayahuasca arrow this is a shaman blowing
tobacco this is part of the ritual they
actually blow tobacco on you why you why
you do that so this guy was just this
little rattle and singing and sometimes
there's actual singing not just
whistling but no there's like in their
language this beautiful soft rhythmic
sort of song and the hallucinations
dance to this to the sound to this music
like they're supposed to dance to it
like they're part of like it's not just
that you're having music on top of the
psychedelic experience but that they
merge emerge and the psychedelic
experience experience is a hundred
percent effected by this so it's not
just that there's chemicals that are
interacting with your brain you're doing
something to by responding to that music
and then the music is doing something by
enhancing the way your perception of
this experience is and all that is
dancing together like they belong
together
it's fascinating shit yeah I mean my
hypothesis has been that the music acts
as a prosthesis to sort of lock you in
because the experience is so powerful
yeah I'm a maybe oh yeah it's always a
little bit weird you know try to imagine
somebody says do you want a glass of
scotch and a shaman to go with it you
know someone at a bar that's like like
we're gonna drink this we're gonna drink
this with good intentions no one's gonna
be grabbing anybody's dick no one's you
know what's going inside no one's
getting rude here there would be no
wedgies right there'd be nothing nothing
rude will be said you will you will
think for a good solid five seconds
before any hasty moves like let's let's
let's understand that I love a benefit
ok great benefit from this in terms of
our ability to be loose and to be silly
and to enjoy each other's company but if
if a demon comes out wearing this time
you must address this demon personally
on your own don't pull the demon out and
throw it at the party right this is good
stuff that's but that's what happens so
you know
we had drunks they thrown that deal
Nietzsche that the thing where they
figured out that if you put a worm in
the mask all stuff that would be a great
marketing device north of the border
mm-hmm because you just tell some story
so now we we're gonna open that what
that is it's what I think it's a
marketing gimmick
and then and then what we do is we we
found our own tequila company and we
only it's so exclusive that you can only
buy it if you also hire a charlatan for
the event make tons of money yeah and if
what if the worm actually was
psychedelic like what if there was a way
you can genetically engineer a worm to
be intensely psychedelic like the worm
literally is made out of ayahuasca like
we we why don't we put a toad in the
mescal
well don't they do weird shit like that
where they will take tomatoes and
they'll like use fucking frog DNA in the
tomato to make it live longer but
there's some weird shit xxx working with
cool stuff is the green fluorescent
protein stuff you can have
glow-in-the-dark rabbits and fur she
makes these yes yes let's get some
glow-in-the-dark bunnies man think they
can do that right there is something
like that right some of you have Jamie
do you have glow-in-the-dark rabbits
genetically modified potato mmm with
frog genes to resist pathogens yeah
what in the holy fuck yeah so how weird
is that
GM potato uses frog gene to resist
pathogens like that's that's real can we
do going on can we do GFP rabbits so
what were we on before this what we're
talking about we got two rabbits well
had a point on tequila with so what if
we engineer yeah that little worm right
to be like 100% DMT honey does it DSD
where you get down to that worm and
whoever chugs to the bottom and choose
on that worm just yeah you immediately
transform what is the fuck am i watching
these are these glowing rabbits yet that
is so weird dude it's so we've got
hoverboards and archery stuff we need
rabbits we need glowing round here's a
problem man my kids have rabbits and
they're cunts those rabbits a little
assholes they don't they don't give a
fuck about each other we have two of
them is so rude
what happens there both males
unfortunately here's what happens when
you get two male bunnies and you're
putting them in a gigantic chicken coop
they fuck each other up it's bunny UFC
everyday with these little assholes all
they do is kick each other's ass they
chase each other around this chicken
shoot coop and when they get a hold of
each other if they bite each other and
they kick each other they fuck each
other up because they're both boys and
they don't want a boy to be running shit
as these two bunnies fucking each other
out dude this is what they do
bunnies are fucking ruthless to each
other these two little assholes just
chase each other all day long and beat
the shit out of each other that's all
they do
why don't you do commentary I'm not
gonna I'm not gonna encourage they're a
series of color denominator one of them
is actually missing so here's what
happened we our chicken coop burnt down
from the fire but the chicken survived
one of them got scorched they all got
fucking PTSD it's crazy I go near but
they're alive alright so we had a
maneuver them and moved up but one
bunnies missing we found one bunny and
one bunnies missing so I think it's
better for the one bunny that survived
and the one bunny that probably got
jacked by an eagle or some shit like
that that's a wrap son you had a good
life you beat the shit out of your
friend for a year and a half solid just
kicking each other's ass it's fucking
horrible the ears are totally jacked
like your ears are shredded like like an
old back to the death that you missed I
don't think so because there's no body I
think I think a bunny got out and it
probably ran away or who knows what the
fuck happened in coyote got it or some
shit I mean there's a lot of hawks a lot
of hawks in my neighborhood it's most
likely a hawk yeah yeah but whatever
just one little bunnies by himself now
he's like the other asshole
they're both assholes to each other it's
not like one good bunny they just find
each other and like fuck you imagine
just that's all you do for years right
so that's bunny life you get two male
bunnies together and every day is fuck
you fuck you fuck you they run at each
other and one one's always trying to get
away one's always trying to eat the
other one to jump on him start biting
him and kicking him and the other one
will do the same and they'll rotate you
know that's very funny the the last two
Jews in Afghanistan both had to live in
the synagogue that was all they had left
and somebody somebody went yeah somebody
went to go visit the last to choose in
Afghanistan and said like why aren't you
guys friends and one of them says here
I'll show you
hey Shmuel want to have lunch we got the
guy says drop dead he says you see what
I'm working with and it's like the most
Jewish conversation between the last
stage is they can't get along so they're
like the two rabbits that all the others
went away well they're probably really
horny and lonely and confused
I suppose yeah I mean what the fuck
there's only two of them they need to
get to Israel stat like one of them died
and then the last one is is just just my
quest to be the last guy someone talked
to him if it's possible for you to get
to Jerusalem that's your people they'll
just you have a party over there
everything would be great Jewish food
everyone speaking Hebrew everyone's
United well like the last three Jews at
Kerala was this young woman and two guys
just let no neither one of you forget
this thing oh I know it's rough man
it's rough it's crazy to think this is a
country with zero Jews like zero yeah
yeah yeah nope the whole country like
whoa whoa whoa that is kind of it is no
melting pot here sir zero zero melting
she was one ingredient whole pot it's
all stew that's it you know that the
Taliban actually really needed the
Jewish community because they wanted to
be able to say we've great relations
with Afghanistan's Jewish community they
just didn't say it was two guys yeah two
dudes that hate each other exactly very
polarizing truth I don't know how we got
into glowing bunnies I'm not getting any
fucking bunnies man all right if you get
to guy and a girl together you got to
fix the girl otherwise you gonna have a
million bunnies and they're all gonna be
kicking each other's asses that's all
they do
the bunny apocalypse well what's really
fucked up is reading about animals that
that fight like right out of the womb
how they kill their partner they call
the gates Iblis yeah put a pull-up
obligate sibling side in blue in nazca
boobies what are those what's been
asking asking lines or these what are
these boobies Jamie help me out here
hang on there were boobies
how do you spell that an AZ CA and then
boobies the usual and I'm trying to
remember what I was reading about where
obligates Iblis I when one animal comes
out the other one tries to kill the
other one almost immediately hello
hyenas Oh
hyenas hyenas there's been there's been
evidence of hyenas attacking their
sibling while it's in the amniotic sac
mmm and there's when they come out the
bigger one or the stronger one of the
whatever ones healthy will almost
immediately start attacking its sibling
and try to kill it pull up that if
that's true I'm pretty sure that's true
well unless he boobs went into this I
went to this crazy rabbit hole about
hyenas recently what a bizarre animal
that is so this the false penis yeah the
false penis is just one aspect yeah
everything everything of 20% of the
women died okay here goes obligate Sybil
Sybil sighs when a sibling almost always
ends up being killed fugitive Sibley
side means the side fellow faculty like
it's a choice versus you've added
difficult if faculty to exit fabulet if
Silva's simple side means a simple aside
may or may not occur based on
environmental conditions okay so it's
sometimes will happen if there's none of
resources wait so the idea is that they
think the breeding cycle is discretized
so either make it or you don't and so
the danger of laying one egg and having
it not work out is very oh this bird is
fucking his brother up and it has to be
in front of mom and dad because want to
prove that you're worthy
well that is insane right so mommy look
at he's beating it to death so this is
because there's not enough food there's
not enough food to do too so the first
one that the second one is a spare and
the first one proves proves that he's
worthy by killing his sibling the spare
in front of the parents and says yet you
can invest in me I got just think Jesus
Christ what kind of bird is this this is
probably Nazca or blue footed boobies is
my guess that is insane that is insane
it's hard to watch well this is what I
said about biology biology cares about
your feelings and the mom doesn't give a
fuck about her I don't know Mom
mom wants look the mom's excited this
one's dying fucked up and the moms like
mom's excited the older one knows what
it's doing
he's viable Jesus Christ nature is
pretty brutal
pretty brutal no it's it's bizarre
seeing this from oh god I don't want to
see this thing's slowly die dude it's
bizarre seeing it from birds but I think
it's even more ruthless the way Lions
yeah hyenas yeah hyena is killing their
siblings that almost uh I think they
were saying it's pretty universal that
is when the first one comes out they try
to kill the second one well you know
this thing about lion female lions
getting excited by the murder of their
children whoa so when the new and the
new male takes over the pride mm-hmm his
first order of business maybe let's not
stop wasting resources on the previous
daddy's offspring yeah so what happens
is same kind of thing the hyena gets out
and immediately starts killing its
sibling they're fighting to the death
right out of the womb look at this
fucking mad battle as babies look it's
got still got the sack on it and they're
just trying to kill each other this is a
particularly ruthless animal they were
they were saying that 60% of hyenas died
as they're trying to get out of the tube
Wow
what I didn't know that yeah 20% of
women died one of the females rather die
when they're giving birth that's because
of our easy brain to body ratio
well it's also a no female hyenas oh
that's giant dick sorry I thought you
were talking about high rates of human
natality female hyenas die 20% of the
time when they're giving birth all right
because the baby doesn't come out right
like they have this crazy you know they
have a faux penis that is actually a
vagina it's a it's an enormous huge
engorge clitoris it's far bigger than
the males
they have to pull it back so the male
can copulate with them but then when
they give birth it has to come out of
that dick and they don't it doesn't
always come out right so system yeah
that because I might be wrong about the
numbers but it's some exorbitant number
of babies died and a huge number of
women women I keep seeing women female
hyenas done all right
yeah that's why fuck oh but they're all
so weird and that they're way bigger
than the males and that's the because
the males won't let the babies eat so
that's one of the things they think like
if something is they're scavengers the
males are trying to push out everything
smaller so because that the females have
to get in and go fuck off the kid has to
eat like even if it's their kid that's
cool it's 60% suffocate on their way out
yes 60% of them dying on the way out
yeah and I think it's 20% of the females
died during childbirth as well pretty
sure that's what I read which is fucking
bananas
I mean 60% though imagine 60% of all
kids die on the way out and then the
ones that don't die if you got two of
them one of them kills the other one the
rough neighborhood yeah oh it's a
matriarchal society and they give birth
through that fake penis yeah that's what
I'm saying know what yeah what is the
purpose of the fake penis with a fake
penis is to dominate the men they get on
top of the bend and they go listen bitch
so it's gonna be and they got a big old
strap on they pegged their men and all
male hyenas are cucks they all take it's
crazy it's crazy that's where we're
heading as an inch in diameter
really oh Jesus ouch
tight squeeze which that's that creates
a high death rate for first-time mothers
yeah high death residents say here how
many would I think it's 20% I never seen
the like the full human clitoris yes
I've seen one have you not in the one oh
the full the full clitoris no I know
I've never seen it like a biological can
you pull up the the internal clitoris
internal clitoris I think it was only
discovered is it not allowed to be shown
trying to quickly think about that yeah
well you could pull it up but just don't
show the world just show us okay yeah if
you I think if you put that on YouTube
will be demonetized and possibly kicked
off their net worth to Google that
yourself yeah Google it you weirdo and
and be careful of the wrath of it's not
an enormous structure that I think we
didn't fully understand I don't
understand how we could have missed it
but my understanding was we didn't fully
understand the internal clitoris we're
right there on the left below it looks
exactly like this sort of space ships
from War of the Worlds 1953 it's all
that stuff on the outside the all you
see on the outside that
we're gonna get in trouble they get mad
at us does that picture make you horny
not makes you afraid doesn't it seems
like an alien like it should shoot
lasers hugger
yeah like that's the Ridley Scott alien
the face hugger Wow yeah whoo well just
a look it's very weird that we've just
come to accept what the shape of the
body is my body is very bizarre I mean
if we were all shaped like stingrays and
we saw a person we'd be like what in the
holy fuck is that thing yeah with its
articulating fingers and it's moving its
eyeballs rounds sniffing things with its
nostrils like we just accept the fact
that this shape is normal that it makes
sense
well this is why cephalopods from last
time when we're talking about cuttlefish
yeah my I just learned something new
which is that cephalopods are under
consideration to be the next great model
organism for biology so if you think
about how weird it is that some branch
of the phylogenetic tree is so far
distant from us that these mollusks have
such advanced minds and you know their
skin is the wonder of the world for sure
yeah nobody knows quite how all of that
not only do they have these
chromatophores to get the camouflage
right but they also change the texture
of their skin to mimic things like coral
and all this stuff
wouldn't it be cool if we made cell pods
the next great model organism and then
we started doing comparative like not
only neuroanatomy but connectomics where
we're trying to study how their brains
are organized because they're so far
away they are probably the closest we
will ever get to meeting aliens I think
I said that the last day yes here and
I'm really excited if that goes forward
well it really doesn't seem like
anything else right you know whether
it's a cuttlefish or whether it's an
octopus like you like oh it's like kind
of like a squid like yeah a little bit
like a person's like a monkey yeah but
like real different the Nautilus is yeah
the craziest you know maybe a vine the
cuttlefish is the most interesting for
sure they're both the octopus is the
collagen right but like a regenerate
that's another part of it that's bizarre
yeah well it would be fun to do a I
would imagine that newts
salamanders in the tetrapod category
would be the best for us to study for
regeneration
I like how they regenerated up to a
point like nature will say yeah you can
grow an arm back kink or a head back
sorry fuck face that's a wrap yeah you
know you lose your head
nature's like you gave up a big piece it
gave up the Queen it's over
yeah games over see if you lose your
tail like it's debatable do you grow
your tail back we could do them all
right
lizards grow their tail back you know
but they only grow like most of it they
don't grow the whole thing but the newts
and salamanders seem to have this very
high Bridgend you can just get an arm
off over and over again there is you
can't cut their head off yeah why do you
wanna cut their head off
I don't but I mean just saying it's
weird like you can't like chop them in
half from the waist down
they don't seal up and grow a new waist
like that's it you can only get rid of
the limbs yeah but you can get rid of
the limbs like nature's evolved a
strategy for dealing with predation just
give him the arm
give him the arm take it what do you
make of the fact that we had this
successful head transplant in monkeys in
like the early seventies and then we
walked away from it probably good move
otherwise chicks at Beverly Hills they'd
be getting new bodies just getting their
head screwed on to new realities yeah
getting new heads yeah people would
figure out a way to transplant their
brains if it wants to live forever now I
just have an eight hundred year old
brain and so talk about any old
motorcycle victim yeah that's what
people are gonna start doing well then I
guess it's we walked I thought it was
kind of a weird move that when we
succeeded that and then say okay too
much can't handle it do you think that's
what they did
oh yeah is it probably hard to get
funding people thought you're playing
God ah the guy who did it I think was
maybe his name is Robert white and he
was a devout Christian so it was really
it was good because you know there was a
lot of this reverence for the human form
and if a religious person is doing it we
feel better than if somebody is like
desecrating right right some atheist a
scientist right doesn't know Paris I bet
he's cutting heads off whoa dogs
attaching them to monkeys yeah that's
what's also like we think of it as like
okay it's one thing if you're trying out
medicine on a monkey that might save
babies
but it's another thing if you just say
hey what happens if I cut this monkey's
head off stick it on another monkey well
there's all this crazy I don't know if
you've ever seen this the Russians had
this film introduced by JBS Haldane
great English biologist was also a
communist and therefore very Pro Soviet
and there's this experiment was
experiments in continuation of the brain
after death and they hook up the head to
an artificial circulatory system and
they sort of continued to have
interactions where they swab the head
and they get the eyelash movement and
that the tongue comes out to lick and
eat things it's quite interesting I
would recommend it yeah Haldane has one
of the greatest quotes not only is the
universe queer than you suppose it's
queerer than we can suppose what a great
quote he was also the inordinate
fondness of beetles guy inordinate
fondness of noodles that the Archbishop
of Canterbury found himself I think
seated across from Haldane and wanted to
needle him because he was a communist
atheist and he said you know tell me
well what what does your study of the
biological would inform us about our
Great Creator and how they had him back
he said that he has an inordinate
fondness for beetles because the beetles
are so highly speciated and what was his
reaction to that well I think was a
different eras like smoke burn but like
to our to our way of thinking it's not
that hard of a burn well we're really
committed to the idea that all the stuff
that we can do manipulating the planet
right sending rockets into space that
that's more important than what an ant
does what we're really committed to this
that our significance although it's
clearly if we were working together we
believed in a sense of community it's
more important to each other to us it is
but to the whole thing is really more
important says who
I mean if people didn't exist yeah we
were wiped off the planet all the other
animals would be ok they really would be
ok I mean we would gain and lose more
predators and we wouldn't be controlling
the population sure but if all the ants
went away mm-hmm that would be a wrap
yeah there'd be a wrap we're done
there's no more people this is a
why huh decided that if we lost all
insects especially all ants right like
it probably would collapse all the
ecosystems that we need to sustain human
life I have the feeling that those water
bear tardigrades would be like suckers
got rid of the ants we're the only ones
left
well we wouldn't be able to make it but
a lot of shit would make it a lot of
other stuff that's true but you know the
thing that I think maybe we'd make it
anyway maybe they're wrong
yes don't understand humans freak us out
yeah maybe didn't read that find out if
that's true if all ants died just human
beings would go extinct just Google that
I think I think I read a paper proposing
that and they were explaining the
critical role that ants play in all
these different ecosystems and how the
biomass of ants worldwide is equal to or
greater than the biomass of human beings
okay I don't have any intuition or and
then yeah sounds reasonable now I'm
pretty sure that's true and so but our
idea is that we're more important well
we are i have cable yeah yeah that's not
why i think we're more high or 4g deer
4g okay maybe that's more I have a 70
inch television and I I have an i watch
yeah it must be more important the
stupid fucking ant was dirt house if I
can just piss on your house while I go
jogging yeah I'm a more more important
thing than you yeah I don't know my
inspiration half your people by pissing
on yeah yeah obviously nature does want
to protect you you get your house in the
dirt it's a whole mound okay I don't
know why I want to get serious on you
but the really interesting thing about
humans is that we're the only species
that understands what game were in and
we can reject the game yes every other
species is playing the game so you know
you know my brother very well very
surprising to me that my brother only
wanted to have two kids and didn't want
to like spend all this time down at the
sperm bank you know making donations I
said you're an evolutionary theorist do
you ever think it's kind of weird that
you're not very playing this game very
effectively and he you know shot me back
this thing he said
if you actually understand the game why
would you want to continue to play it I
thought that was like really interesting
that somebody who sounds like his wife
doesn't want any more kids
rationalizations I get it bro yeah
Derrick I found says all all insects
dying not just ants
Oh insects and would take 50 years for
people to disappear after that according
to this the science Explorer article hmm
find out the biomass of ants that's even
trickier but I want to get rid of this
anti human thing because I'm not anti I
know
neutral not biologically neutral if I
just looked at it objectively yeah I
don't that's it you don't think so you
think it's more significant because
we're more significant to each other
well there's no significance in the
whole game if you just take a completely
material it's like what do we care it's
one Rock once back big deal all right so
the problem is if you accept that as an
answer then you've kind of failed by
just taking the nihilist way out yeah
sure to me like you know that they have
this annual question at edged org and
finally I got exhausted and want to ask
another one so I'll finish this up quick
here anything's I'm sorry no you want to
take it ants do owl ants out with humans
individual workers weigh an average
between one to five milligrams according
to the species when combined all ants in
the world taken together weigh about as
much as all human beings that's
interesting Wow
yeah that's what I'm saying that's
fucking bananas whoo
they are 15 to 20 percent of the
terrestrial animal biomass and in
tropical regions were answer especially
abundant they monopolized 25 percent or
more I man up to I have a buddy of mine
Bryan Callen Bryan Callen used to he
when he was in college he spent some
time in the jungle he was thinking he
was going to be a biologist he was gonna
study insect who's gonna be in what is
it an insectivore and it was so they had
to sleep in these elevated tents and
they had to paint like some sort of like
Turpin
type chemical all over the posts because
if they didn't the ants would crawl up
the post and eat you and your sleep was
literally climb in your ear and start
eating you and tell everybody and you
would die that way like people have died
elephants have been eaten by ants and he
said you can hear them walking in the
jungle like in the night you hear you
hear the footsteps of fucking ants
because there's so many of them if
you're in the wrong place at the wrong
time and there's a path of these
motherfuckers moving your way and they
send a signal that we got something here
and they crawl up you they just all
start crawling up you and there's so
many of them you can't avoid them well
because they're not really separate
animals right there you social I mean
opera has this weird property of this
haplit diploid structure so that the
females are highly related to each other
and so in the same way that your cells
aren't individual animals they all
conspire to create you there is a sense
in which in this world of bees and ants
and and wasps and things Hymenoptera the
real entity is the colony it's not the
individual right so you know if I took a
psychological approach to you and I just
went cell by cell you know you're this
collection of you know 10 or 50 trillion
separate entities and that's what makes
ants so terrifying yeah is is that you
know Kropotkin the great ant artist was
sort of an amateur naturalist and he
would look to natural systems and say
why can't humans cooperate like this and
the point is we're not structured to
cooperate in this you social fashion the
way they cooperate is so uncanny when
those leaf cutter ants designed those
intricate cities with they have places
where things ferment and we're where
gases are released through holes in the
ground and it doesn't make any sense
that this little tiny brain could figure
out this enormous structure but somehow
or another when combined and it's not a
tiny brain right not just one one
version of this but millions and
millions of these designs
appear all over the world and they see
if you can find that video of they
filled a leaf cutter ant colony they
filled the home with molten metal you
know something like that what they call
it yeah I think they flooded it with
concrete they flooded concrete in all
the holes and then they dug out
everything around it so you could see
the structure and then they explained
what there's this is really like
well-thought-out like they have portals
and they have the this is how they get
the food in and this is where they take
the leaves and they they let they let
them rot and they turn to mulch and
there's like a gas release distributed
loosely coupled system what makes it
seem so amazing I mean it is utterly
amazing but if you think about it as
individuals making decisions that
conspire to create these since these
structures it's lesson it's that's more
amazing than what it is which is it's a
loosely coupled distributed system hmm
you know so that's how a beehive will
you know send out explorers and they'll
report back and they'll do the dance and
the dance communicates the information
and you've got all these coordinated
activities in what other systems do you
suppress the fertility of females
because the relatedness is so high I
mean this is gorgeous yeah this is the
video we're talking about so this is
it's really huge too and they have these
looks like tunnel systems and then they
lead to these big circular areas where
they're really almost uniform in size
and it's really strange way or similar
in size they so they have these pathways
that go to these like rooms these
circular rooms and there's just this
incredible network of these tubes and
circular rooms that they uncover and
it's fucking enormous when you look at
how big this thing I mean if you had it
look how big is that was that 80 feet
across ninety feet across or something
like that
look it good so they're continuing to
dig this up they're not even done in
this video here but you see all the
pipes that extend to the left and to the
right so
developed some sort of complex
civilization some weird bizarre network
of these passageways and and and rooms
and they do it just like this everywhere
so some pattern has emerged in their
species that has set them up to act as
this collective group and then operate
in this similar fashion all over the
world wherever they exist in that sort
of with that kind of dirt they can
manipulate right that that's that alone
is one of that is a massive mystery and
how a little tiny thing with a brain
that's almost imperceptibly small this
is like tiny little head this little
head how's he figure out that hole how
do you figuring out tunnels that he's
not really insane not well right this is
one trick they're working together okay
so if you look at for example C elegans
the nematode with a thousand cells for
the entire body plan 300 of which are
neurons we have a complete map not only
of the cell lineage diagram which is how
this thing unfolds from a single
fertilized egg but we also have a
complete wiring diagram of its nervous
system so this is something that
locomotives around it eats as sex and
it's only got 300 neurons each of those
is an extremely primitive machine and
they send signals to each other and we
still don't know that how the thing
really works even though we've got the
entire thing mapped this was the great
insight of sydney brenner that we would
make the the worm the great model
organism because we could actually map
everything about it right and it is
astounding to me how little we've
learned we've learned a ton from it but
I had thought that we would have gotten
much farther and understanding the brain
did you see this recent discovery of a
25-foot long sea worm that apparently is
not just one organism it's like many
organisms together combined no yeah I
got to find
yeah you got to see this fucking thing
it's insane and I think this is a very
recent discovery at least one this large
and these guys are swimming around with
this thing it looks impossible it looks
like they landed on another planet and
they're experiencing this thing like
this thing this whatever this is I'm
pretty sure with it what I read I've
read it really quickly as I was running
out the door that it exists large 8 mil
8 meter worm like sea creature stuns New
Zealand divers so they're looking at
this thing but I think there's many
different organisms inside of it I don't
think it's one individual organism yeah
it's made up of hundreds of thousands of
organisms I've never seen that yeah like
what what is it like what does that mean
is this is a weird tube for folks that
are watching this or listening to this
rather what we're looking at is these
divers that are just trippin balls here
they're like what in the fuck is this
and it looks like like an enormous tube
like jellyfish type creature that's in
the water
it almost looks semi translucent right
would you say and its dwarfing them it's
enormous
it's so big it's like the size in what
moves and changes but it sometimes it's
larger than a human waste or a human
chest and other times it gets real
skinny but it's fucking huge like a look
at that what is that thing I'm stunned
well the fact that it's like I don't
understand what they're saying that it's
made up of hundreds of thousands of
organisms like how is it made up of
different stuff like what is it like
have you ever heard of anything like
this not like the Portuguese man-of-war
I think is like five different organisms
isn't it isn't it that collaborate in
effect really the Portuguese Man Wars
not a flicker one thing look at the size
that thing above the water that is
fucking crazy
Pyrus ohm just whatever the ocean is
like that like we're all we're trying to
look into space like I wonder if there's
aliens out there there
here I know right fucking there like
whether it's cuttlefish or octopus or
this goddamn thing whoa
pyro somme what the fuck that thing
looks like a geometric pattern that's a
nice one look at that one in the upper
right hand corner Jamie what is that
weird looking fucking them what is that
thing 60 foot long jet-powered animal oh
god it's like a civilization it's like a
ship of these things flying through the
ocean what have you ever seen this
before what the fuck is that
that is so weird-looking oh come on man
that looks like something from Avatar
doesn't yeah it totally does right like
that could something that comes off that
tree hopefully put it in the new movie
yeah it's held called James Cameron look
at this thing so this is what those
things are but the other one is a very
smooth or it's low resolution and we
can't get a really good look at it
but that's what it is it's this
collective group of hundreds of
thousands of organisms that combined
together and they're getting jacked by
that turtle all you bitches what a weird
weird organism look at that
look at this picture if you stuck your
arm in it I just dude how bizarre is it
that there's a civilization of these
things all combined but what they are is
individuals that operate as a giant tube
you never heard of this before now I'm
so happy we found something you don't
know about that was that's how fucking
weird one man but yeah the idea that the
ocean is really an alien world yeah all
right well the funniest part is when you
when you hear these guys with their
remote submersibles and they find some
new life-form yeah yeah they're like
take me down believe me those wait what
is that you know they get really excited
yeah because it it's the ability to meet
aliens there are new things yeah I mean
we we've kind of sorta mapped out the
best you're more or less oh yeah there's
like a few weird things you fought in
the jungle weird bug
where's not yet Vietnam has some
surprises for a seer with fangs
oh you ever seen those oh the Sulawesi
boars or they'll daddy here really
vampire deer I don't know I don't know
about vampires it's the craziest looking
thing ever it's deer with fangs
like crocodile looking fangs that come
hanging down like this this is some
Jackalope thing oh god it's a weird
little animal it's not a big deer either
well do you know look at that thing
vampire deer that's a real animal look
at that how fuckin strange what was this
what was in this coffee Jamie look at
that thing look at the fucking teeth on
that thing
it's probably something akin to their
antlers they use it to defend themselves
ok that's not real it's not real
because that's a mule deer see that one
that you just pick that's that's some
Photoshop bullshit what's interesting is
apparently elk have these things called
the people call them ivories now but
they what they are is at one point in
time they had tusks yeah like a boar
yeah like giant tusks that probably
aided them and their fights and they
eventually shrank and now they're just
this weird sort of nubby thing I
actually have some here I'll show it to
you yeah yeah they're in the after the
podcast I'll show em to you but they
they're this weird thing that's like not
quite a tooth it's ivory it grows inside
their head and at one point in time it
was some kind of a weapon just like
their head is I mean the antlers are you
know that's the largest but how do we
describe this what was the quickest
growing thing in the animal world is the
the antlers of an elk okay look how
fucking huge they are they fall off
every year and they grow back every year
and it's all just for fighting and they
used to grow back tusks too are these to
have to the answer the tusks were
permanent but they used to just it's
just for duking it out yeah it's crazy
weapon their sexual selection well you
want to know really weird thing of the
dung beetle um there's a conserved
system whereby in some dung beetles the
amount of weaponry you have is your
antler is inversely proportional to the
amount of copulatory apparatus you have
where it counts well and so if you have
really impressive weaponry you're not
able to do quite as much and that may be
the engine of speciation is because the
vagina and penis in that system is a
lock and key and so if something shrinks
too much then you can't necessarily get
get the job so if a greedy dung beetle
with giant horns just fucks everybody up
his genes can't pass on maybe there's a
certain round of cooperation that's
needed in the dung beetle world yeah
can't have an oppressor can of a Genghis
Khan of the dung beetle world the
patriarchy and the dung beetle world
look at the size of the antler on that
guy yeah but girls make fun of them
probably the dung beetle world like the
guy with the Lamborghini exactly like
what's he doing over there with his
giant it looks like elk antler's
probably is a tiny little dick you want
you want a guy who's just got little
like that like that guy probably
probably hung like a roach right he have
a hunting question for you okay I
started looking into this like primitive
hunting thing I was positively
predisposed towards hunting and I turned
myself off I mean I don't hunt but I
turned myself off of hunting by watching
the effect of some of these people who
are baiting and killing bears in ways
that it just doesn't feel to me like
hyper respectful right and I wondered if
there's like a deeper layer where if I
got even deeper into it I would
understand it or am I actually correct
that there is something weird about the
effect of attracting some beautiful bear
to a kind of easy place to kill it and
then just getting super excited about
doing it in well your natural instincts
yeah there's a reason for them and
you're most certainly correct it's it's
a weird feeling the idea that you're
going to trick this bear and thinking
he's going there to eat and then you
kill them yeah bear hunting is different
than any other kind of hunting in the
first of all there's a lot of emotional
attachment to it because people love
teddy bears and things along those lines
but bears are
this idea that they're beautiful they
definitely are yeah they definitely
they're also one of the more ruthless
animals in the animal kingdom and
they're all cannibals all of them and
the male's don't don't just go after the
Cubs they eat them and they they go
after them specifically to eat them and
then when the males get chased off the
female will eat her own Cubs and this is
universal right they're also responsible
for the death of at least 50% of
undulate calves and fawns whether it's
moose cows somebody don't have any of
these issues so they also are really
difficult to hunt and their populations
thought by wildlife biologists are
important to keep under control select
by all so in areas of extreme density
like forests you will not kill them
unless you bait you will not so if you
one of two things has to happen either
they have to use dogs which is what
these two use a lot these two used to be
California until the 1990s they outlawed
hound hunting and then the outlawed
baiting around the same time what they
essentially did in Northern California
is they outlawed bear hunting but they
didn't you can still hunt bears but it's
extremely difficult almost impossible
with a bow or very very unlikely like
your rate of success would be extremely
low if you want to control populations
if you like to eat moose and deer or you
want to have them keep healthy
populations and you don't want the bear
encroaching on these rural homes and
these areas you have to control their
populations and there's very few other
ways to control their populations other
than baiting them so assume that I was
positively predisposed to hunting I do
think that they're beautiful creatures I
think they're emotional creatures but I
understand yeah they're all they're all
beautiful okay so you know I think I
mean I think the frogs are beautiful
they're fascinating it's the effect that
frickin yeah it should it's it's a weird
form of trickery and we don't think it's
sporting right but the idea is that if
you really want to control their
populations you have to accept that this
is a necessary evil so soon that I grasp
that mm-hmm
it's still at the level the the thing
that surprised me was that the effect
wasn't the expected effect of the hunter
with reverence in some sense sufficient
reverence for the kill
yeah that's what flipped me up well
there's people get excited and they get
happy that they're successful because
hunting is difficult and if you take
that at the context if you take that out
of context and people get happy
especially when they get happy they're
getting happy around people that have no
problem with hunting see one of the
problems with respect is that it's
assumed that you only have that respect
if you don't have happiness that goes
along with that so I understand that
that there is some amount of sadness
some amount of happiness is a weird like
I have healing of loss it's a there's a
lot of weird stuff that goes I'm
surprised and the reason I'm asking you
is is that I had expected that I would
have the difficulty bears equals teddy
bears and I get past that I keep going
around this whole thing and then when I
finally got to the end it was just that
there wasn't the right balance between
sadness ecstatic elation it's hard it's
hard to it's hard if you're not there
experiencing it it's it's hard if you're
not involved in this hunt for many many
days and it gets very difficult you put
and you don't know if it's ever gonna
happen but the bear hunting in
particular especially over bait is way
more problematic psychologically don't
know I think there's a really good
argument and I support this argument
that you must keep bear populations in
control if you want people and and all
those other animals to live in harmony
got it because if you don't there's
nothing else that keeps their
populations in control by the other than
bigger bears grizzly bears and grizzly
bears and they get out of hand
are way scarier that's a real it's a
real good dense real giant problem in
terms of our our anthropomorphism of
these animals you know attaching these
human attributes and these human
thoughts and and thinking of them as our
friends in the forest and then what they
actually are to people that live out
there not my guess is that if I went
hunting with you I would expect to see
you elated after three days of
frustration yes on a on a good hunt I
expect that you would use the kill
responsibly that you would
forgo certain kinds of kills I don't
have any of those issues I think I think
that where the issue is is that I
wouldn't expect an unbalanced relation
hmm yeah I understand what you're saying
and especially an unbalanced elation
when you're hunting over bait right for
an animal that is not necessarily
thought of in our culture as being an
animal that you eat which is bear and a
lot of times people think that you don't
eat them black bears in particular
actually they taste very good and people
do eat them when you deal with people
like I have friends my friend John and
Jenn rivet who live in Alberta and there
they are hunting guides it's a real
necessity up there to hunt bears okay
because there is nothing else that's
keeping their populations in check and
if you ever go up there you see an
extraordinary amount of bears like you
could see 19 20 bears in a day well
they're everywhere okay and there's a
high density of them and they just
decimate the deer population they
decimate the moose population and
there's some of them that learn that
they can get into garbage cans they
break into people's cars and destroy
them they've killed a few people but
it's pretty rare most of time they
realize that people are dangerous and
they stay the fuck away but it's not
what what I appreciate is spot and
stalking traditional prey animals that's
what I like to do I like to spot and
stalk deer and elk because I feel like
first of all they're the most delicious
they make whether it makes sense or not
they make the most sense to me in terms
of like a prey animal they're the ones
that I I covet the most what I want to
do is I want to go and get older mature
animals that are undulates right whether
it's deer or an elk an animal that
spread its genetics that is already it's
you know seven eight years old nine
years old as animal that doesn't have
much time left if you get it now you're
probably getting it within a year of its
death whether it's by natural causes
wolves cold starvation you're you're
doing it probably the most humane you're
giving it probably the most humane death
it's reasonably possible for this thing
unless it falls off a cliff and even
then it's the
it might survive that for a little while
you when you're shooting an animal with
an arrow it's dead in seconds right you
know you hit it in the heart and they
shot an elk this year it literally
walked for yards and tipped over it just
step step step boom I mean I am very
impressed with the skill of some of
these yeah I guess this is the print
primitive hunting movement with Spears
and see that's I think you should I
think you should be really careful about
anything that you do that's not that
accurate that's that's an issue yeah
it's a giant issue elbows are extremely
accurate right and there's guys that can
shoot a paper plate at 120 yards every
single time they could shoot a little
plate like that they will they'll bet
their life they can drop an arrow into
that at 120 yards every single time you
can get good at that you can get if you
have good technique and reasonable
control of your emotions and your
anxiety sure in the heart in the heat of
the moment you don't ever shoot anything
in a hundred twenty yards though you're
shooting at things 30 yards 40 yards and
the degree of success is very high with
skilled hunters if you they're ethical
and they're shy their shot decisions is
that primitive stuff is like why why you
throwing spears like woody what are you
doing you trying to prove that you're
better than people that use a bow and
arrow like this is not an accurate or
effective thing I mean it kind of is but
you have to be like 5 yards 10 yards
like what you got to be 15 yards max
even there I think part of the thrill of
it for them is putting themselves in
danger there's a little bit of that if
you shooting
oh you're going after a bear yeah like
I've seen some of these things filmed
where the person looks like you know
they're up in there I don't know what to
call it there little tree stand tree
stand and that doesn't look like they're
putting a lot of risk but some of these
people are clearly getting off on this
is the primal hunt right and this is
they're going backwards into something
where the animal could surprise them and
what I what I wanted to do is I wanted
to reacquaint myself with
you know now that I can I can watch
somebody actually in that moment try to
figure out what my ethics around hunting
were and I thought that I had prepared
myself and I just I thought when I was
when I saw you find out where Joe is
because I have no question knowing your
ethics and how you think that you would
have a very subtle perspective on all
these different kinds of kills which
sorts of animals yeah if you get two
Spears yeah you're in a weird place like
like you say oh I only spear wild pigs
we're trying to get rid of them anyway
okay well that's we're in a weird place
we're in a weird place because ethically
I think you have two choices three
choices your three choices are rifle
which is number one ethically
realistically because if you shoot
something with a rifle you you can be
really accurate like out to a hundred
yards a hundred percent of the time like
unless it's crazy windy out or there's
some weird conditions altitude can
affect ballistics but not that much out
to one hundred yards you're fuckin
deadly if you have a really good
controlled squid squeezing the trigger
you're not jerking everything not
panicking then bow is second you know
bow it requires way more practice way
way more fine-tuning of your motor
skills but it's still possible okay then
you have crossbow which is even more
effective than a bow faster more feet
per second faster feet per second so
that it travels at a flatline because
it's going quicker before it drops they
all drop the same speed right bullets
and arrows all drop at the same speed
they just don't get there at the same
speed okay so the same amount of time
like if I'm shooting something at a
hundred yards it with a bow I am aiming
with with a site that is calculating for
the fact that the arrow is going to drop
significantly in the time that it takes
if it's going 280 feet per second it's
like a normal speed for a good bow with
a good heavy arrow that's 280 feet per
second that goes a hundred yards okay a
bullet is going to go a hundred yards
far quicker
but in the same amount of time it takes
that arrow to get to that target the
bullet is gonna drop the same amount as
the arrow yeah and that's what most
people don't understand mm-hmm so a
crossbow is more ethical because it's
more accurate
it's does have fewer moving parts you
could actually sit it on a rest and just
squeeze the trigger easier to manipulate
and the arrow is traveling faster so
it's called a bolt traveling faster so
it'll drop less after that shit get
squirrely okay after that it's like
you're throwing spears okay you got what
do you got an atlatl okay all right well
you can kill things with it and people
have done it but it gets to how accurate
are you and it what is what's your
ethical brain right like an ethical
range for a really good hunter with a
bow and arrow is probably 80 yards I
mean maybe it's a moose 90 yards
something big but with a spear like what
do you got you got ten yards so you know
why that's the question that was are you
doing it for meat are you doing it
because is this your Mount Everest you
want to kill a pig with a spear and are
you saying that a pig is not worth as
much so you should be able to kill it
with a spear because these are all weird
these are weird that weird decisions and
people make those with bears they make
those decisions with black bears like
people that live where they consider
them nuisances right age they kill them
I mean they used to be used to allow
them to shoot you still allow to hunt
used to be allowed to hunt black bears
with a spear in Alberta until a big
scandal a couple years ago where a guy
filmed himself doing that he shot a bear
he killed a bear rather with a spear and
was Hootin Hollerin and and people got a
hold of video and thought it's
disgusting and protested it and people
from under armour dropped his wife from
there you know they had this sort of
sponsorship deal with them and it
ignited it caused a rift in the hunting
community some people think you should
be able to hunt with a rock
yeah all right what you hunt with you
should be a hunt with anything and other
people like hmm okay but what are we
doing are we just going out to get meat
or are we putting on a macho performance
of
our ability this is exactly what I
wanted to get averages if you know that
a population has to be controlled and
you want the meet yeah then it makes
sense to me that you have to open
yourself up to some of the pleasure of
the kill that makes some sense but what
I saw just like flipped me out because
it wasn't it was above and beyond yeah I
saw spear yeah and other things yeah and
you know I was impressed by the some of
the skill I'm impressed by some of the
bravery but if I understand but like why
right right yeah I'm doing it too
population control you're doing it for
them this was a surprise to me yeah I
got I got kind of sickened by it that's
not surprising it's not surprising you
know I mean I think if you if you were
there you'd probably be even more
conflicted because you're actually were
there in the presence of the thing dying
yeah you know watching a bear die on a
video is one thing but being there alive
when they die is a completely different
thing
it's it's it's a very complicated thing
because we have these deep set emotional
connections to certain animals that my
friend Steve Rinella who's going to be
actually on tomorrow he calls them
charismatic megafauna yeah that we have
this different view of certain animals
bears in particular but if you use the
animal respectfully respectfully and you
kill it ethically and you do I don't
have any problem with hunting bears and
in fact I think it's actually an esse it
really is a necessary task it's
something that even if you don't like to
hunt bears if you're living in a place
like Alberta you probably should hunt
bears because you should do your part
there's a lot of them out there and you
know one of the things that becomes an
interesting relationship is a
relationship between the moose hunters
and the deer hunters and the bear
hunters that they have kind of if those
smart ones have come to an understanding
that even if I don't hunt bear I need
those people out there doing it okay but
it's how do you do it and why are you
doing it I think you I've seen animals
die very quickly with a bow and arrow
they die very quickly I've never seen an
animal die with a spear but don't think
it's necessary but I don't want to be
the person that
you you can't do it if you have an
ethical range of five yards and you only
hunt bear with a spear at five yards and
you kill it immediately you hit it and
kill it you're right then you're right
yeah it's not based on the method it's
based on what what are the ethical
parameters around the can also I would
kind of be a hypocrite because even
though I can ethically kill something at
forty yards or just figure out what the
number is depending on the size of the
animal and even though I can do that I
could do it way easier with a rifle so
why am i using a bow and arrow why do I
want to make it more difficult why am I
making it more challenging why am i
requiring myself to practice but because
questions you're very self aware it's a
very important question to ask because
if I was just doing it just for the meat
I would probably lose a rifle right yeah
yeah I think that that that that part of
it has to do with the primal association
with the kill and then the key question
is how do you want to indulge that what
is the set and setting blah blah blah so
that was that that was the thing that I
found shocking is that I had thought you
know I understood something about the
need to control population mm-hmm it's
the effect which really killed me yeah
well again we're talking about bears you
know as such as bears other animals as
well yeah yeah I mean I saw I don't want
to focus more on necessarily but it's
just a question I had to ask you because
I sort of I was very surprised by my own
reaction well a lot of people are taking
issue my good friend Ben O'Brien who's a
brilliant writer who's actually also a
hunter is advocating that people stop
taking what he calls grip and grins
where the grip and grin is like say if
you shot a beautiful deer you're holding
the deer up by the antlers and you're
smiling
yeah and he's advocating that those
photos are problematic because people
who don't hunt look at it like you're
some bloodthirsty asshole that's super
happy that something died and that's not
even though that's not how the people
feel when they're taking those photos
what there are is happy that's something
which is very difficult which you know
especially using a bow
most people go home empty-handed it's it
requires too much fitness physical
fitness because you're going up and down
mountains it requires too much
accuracy and training and technique and
archery most people fuck it up and then
there's dealing with anxiety most people
fuck it up but after it's all over
there's this great feeling of elation
right you did it I can't believe it came
together Wow because it was probably not
going to come together and people get
happy these are people again that
already accept hunting now if you take
someone who is an animal rights activist
or someone who deeply appreciates
animals and then you show them that
photo they have a completely different
association with what that photo means
what that photo means is here's an
asshole who's a trophy hunter let me get
my thing I don't know any species that
celebrates a kill for food with Glee
chops do oh sorry sorry you're right
yeah when they kill a monkey they get
pretty happy well then they do it
socially and then they they share it you
know throughout truism they scream in
each other yeah AAA
so that's chimps are my least favorite
species almost of all they're wholesome
terrified the worst yeah they're
terrifying little fuckers so weird where
do you think we are on the political
front we haven't even touched that um I
think it's right the same way as
bowhunting vs. Spears rifles it's all
theirs this world's messy you know all
these things are messy do you see a way
in which this political epoch comes to
an end the only hope that I have is
through reasonable dialog becoming an
accepted and appreciated thing a
celebrated thing and that this is
possible that people can realize there's
some stupidity to this team mentality
that we have right this right versus
left which is almost all a good
percentage of it
these assumed identities right these are
these predetermined patterns that get
adopted in order to as we first started
talking about this in order to establish
yourself as someone who's in a group
right you get accepted by this group and
you see it left and right I mean I don't
want to name any names but there's a
bunch of people that do it blatantly you
see them and I've even seen them switch
teams and you see them switch teams and
I don't buy their rationals
when it comes to ideology but I think is
what they're doing is they're switching
teams because they realize there's an in
on this team right and they can just say
this is the problem with the team I used
to be on those fucking losers and
they're really Benedict Arnold right and
like they probably have as much of an
affinity to the ideas of one side as it
do the other side they just go all in on
one side to get acceptance from the
group right
yeah there's no way people change their
opinion that much over two years or
something like that or you know it's
like they just decide this group makes
more sense now and I've been attacked by
people on the left so I'm gonna go to
the right or vice versa and usually what
it is is meaning when even when they say
they've been attacked like oh you
fucking baby there's 300 million people
just in this country alone if you put
something out there publicly and a
thousand people attack you don't act
like you're being persecuted okay you
have an idea you've you've you've
launched that idea out into the
zeitgeist and people took a big shit on
it you know whether it's people on the
right or people on the left you got to
be able to argue your point one way or
the other and not just immediately jump
ship on someone who shares ideas with
you decides that your idea sucks and
maybe they're wrong and maybe you're
right but you got to argue that through
but this idea of these partisan patterns
that people just seem to automatically
fall into they're so detrimental to
dialog they're so detrimental to us
under really understanding each other
and really having some sort of a sense
of community right
this is a giant community of 300 million
people that's supposed to be yeah and
this idea that it's this group is trying
to fuck it up and they're trying to turn
us all Muslims and this one wants
everybody to be gay and this one wants
everybody to fucking have free food on
this and this is nonsense this is
nonsense we need better understanding
and what and you know the word better
education gets tossed around a lot but
it also means better social
understanding right better social
education like an appreciation of who we
are and why we think the way we think
and calling out weasel's on both sides
of the pattern like calling out weasels
on the right that are pandering that are
just trying to like get up you know the
repeating a lot of these like accepted
beliefs cuz they know that they can hit
this frequency and a lot of people sing
along or the same thing that our people
are doing on the left
they're doing it on both sides I think
most reasonable people have a collection
of ideas that they share from both the
right and the left and most reasonable
people are reasonably compassionate and
I think that's one of the things that
we're missing some a reasonable sense of
not just ethics but an appreciation for
each other for all of us as a group and
this that I think if we can celebrate
reasonable conversations and celebrate
an understanding of other people's
perspectives right like be able to just
look at how you're looking at things and
have empathy okay let me see where
you're coming from with this okay let me
put myself in your shoes okay instead of
just immediately like fuck you you cook
and fuck you you this and instead of
thinking about it that way if we just
just tried to just everybody exercise a
little bit more so we're a little bit
more calm right and come at this from a
rational place and try to like realize
like the entire exclusion I've been
experimenting with a very dangerous idea
which is I keep hearing about chief
inclusion officers and you know I
thought about I think for me from
Ecclesiastes you know to every season
there's a purpose under heaven so if
there's inclusion there also has to be
exclusion right and like deep
platforming or unplanned somebody is an
act of exclusion and very often it's
very interesting that the people who are
for inclusion are very focused on the
need for deep platforming which is an
act of exclusion so should we have chief
exclusion officers that both monitor who
is being excluded including you know
somebody like James d'amour at Google
like is it ethical to exclude him or are
there certain voices that need to not be
at some tables in order for something to
make progress because if you always have
the voice that's the most extreme that
doesn't accept the game then it's very
hard to move forward within the game if
you're constantly being reminded you
know so we have we have a series of
situations in which it seems like some
perspective that very few people hold
terrorizes majorities or
you know group of people who sort of can
more or less get along with each other
and keeps pushing us into this very
divided landscape and I was just curious
you know in terms of our group of people
that we talk and hang out with in common
where you see the high leverage is that
we've just finished the midterm we've
got this 2020 election it looks to me
like Hillary is kind of AI and whether
she wants to get back in the game
this Trump thing has completely you know
it's like it's like the dress is it
black and blue or white and gold for
like could be eight years right yeah and
I just have you thought about how this
ends well I would never be so
presumptuous to think that I have any
idea how this ends okay I have I've
proposed various scenarios to myself and
I don't like any of them
I don't like where it's going because I
would I worry about and this is also
again hypocritical that because I think
you probably should burn down and be
rebuilt from the ruins we're not we get
such a clear acting gonna be clean I
know
no this isn't very clean either though
honestly that guy one it's not clean if
this is he loves Putin you know this is
ain't clean you know the whole thing is
weird it's the the bankers having the
amount of influence they have the fact
that there's two lobbyists what is it
what's the number like two lobbyists to
every member of Congress or two
lobbyists to every senator for the
pharmaceutical industry by the way the
number of people that have influence
over the way our laws are shaped it's
it's so fucking bananas right now right
so so off the rails is that what it is
twelve what I didn't type in
specifically but there's a twenty-three
registered lobbyists for every member no
I think from the pharmaceutical industry
they were saying not twenty just I think
it's two for every member of Congress in
the pharmaceutical industry
yeah the question you started out with
like D platforming people I think we're
impatient and I think we're we're
we really want to make sure that this
vetting of ideas happens quickly because
we see the answer we see the solution we
see that this is incorrect and we see
these people that think the world is
flat or idiots and we think that these
people that this think this and think
that we think they're all wrong and so
we want to stop them from talking but
that doesn't work it just works for now
it it oftentimes feeds those ideas and
it also it it you have to question like
why are you so sure why are you so sure
that you are correct that you want what
you don't just want your side to be
heard exclusively you want to you want
to silence these are the other people's
ability to participate in this argument
even if they're totally wrong I think
that's dangerous
because I think that the way to fight
off ideas that aren't good is to
introduce ideas that are good and you're
gonna you're gonna have a bunch of
people that agree with the ideas that
are bad but I think that that's a part
of this whole figuring things out like
you need to have bad ideas floating
around there to appreciate good idea so
all the ideas are good like what do we
do get it out against right it's not bad
to have these bad ideas broadcast what's
bad to not have someone say hey these
are bad ideas okay but you need to see
the pitfalls of racism we need to see
the pitfalls of crime we need to see the
pitfalls of corruption we need to see it
in action all right it's like stock
markets Wendling i think in a lot of
ways it's important we need to
understand that this is a pattern that
people fall into continually over and
over again when they have control over
the money when they have control over
that we then move the numbers what do I
do this how about if I tell you that
this is gonna go down and then you
invest some money and I put some money
in your bank and we work together let's
make some money cuz what people do right
if they just fucking do it over and over
and over again should you punish them
yes absolutely
but I think it's kind of important to
see some fucked up behavior just because
we're not done we're still in some sort
of emotional and psychological and even
physical evolution we're in the middle
of this thing and I think that bad ideas
facilitate comprehension like these
really
shitty ideas and a lot of people have
what they do is they facilitate a
comprehension of why we think dumb shit
and sometimes you don't know why people
think dumb shit until you see someone
over and over again that thinks dumb
shit and you get to see that whether
it's alex jones or whether it's fill in
the blank okay what guy do you want
d-plan but I don't okay so here's my
thing I want a lot of our leading
experts D platformed okay well you're
going deep just spray-paint the fucking
big a on Tucker Carlson's driveway all
right yeah well well if I think about
who the great danger is is it alex jones
you know who veers towards tinfoil hat
land with some frequency or is it the
people who were selling you know weapons
of mass destruction in iraq as a
response to 9/11 or you know the people
let's assume that you're a reasonable
person on immigration you neither think
that borders should be open or closed
then you start hearing professors say
you know the great thing about
immigration is is that it has absolutely
no costs and all of them are better than
all of our people because you know
they're highly trained they're highly
motivated they're young you're thinking
like okay what kind of thing has all
benefits and no costs you ready you're
not even entering into a rational
description right and now we're hearing
like all these trade deals that got
negotiated yeah that kind of wasn't true
all those things that we were telling
you that if you if you question these
things you were a backward protectionist
and you were just you were stuck in the
old world and you couldn't embrace the
new yeah that was all bullshit what I
think is we have a a crisis and
expertise institutional expertise is at
an all-time low
nobody really trusts any of our
institutions to be an authoritative
source of ground truth it's not to say
that everything that the institutions
say is wrong or everything the experts
say is wrong far from it it's just that
there are almost no experts or
institutions that aren't willing to
distort facts in order to pursue
institutional polls that that's a giant
issue right right and so I don't
actually want to deep platform these
people but I do have the very strong
sense you know when Elon came on your
show
and Peter teal my friend and boss came
on Dave Rubens show I thought that was
quite a moment where this alternate
network of distribution which is not
under centralized control started to be
seen as comparably powerful and
important and I think some of the noises
that Tucker Carlson just made to Dave
Rubin about whoa hey you're doing this
out of your garage and you have the
freedom to do anything I'm beholden to
the structure in which I live yeah we're
at a very interesting place with respect
to what is this thing this alternate
distribution network for ideas that's
unpolished by the institutions and you
know I think I've been convinced in the
last two days that I need this is advice
that I got from you at the beginning he
said you need to start a podcast I think
I need to start a podcast I think you
need to start a podcast just keep going
on on about the hop thing until people
figured it out but we have to we have to
return to some kind of stable sanity
that I'm positive that the institutions
can't return us to because the the
institutional interests really have to
do with the fact that certain kinds of
growth on which they're predicated their
existence is predicated have evaporated
so all of these institutions are
extremely vulnerable to corruption at
the moment and the real revolution is
I'm seeing it is that high agency
individuals are out competing
traditional institutional structures in
terms of mind share and some of those
high agency individuals are
irresponsible you know they're like Milo
types that are kind of trying to light
things up and some of them are extremely
responsible and some of them you know
we'll do a few interval things but will
self-correct and this new world that is
being born is a huge check on the
institutions but it's still largely
separate like am i right that you don't
do a lot of network television I don't
do anything
yeah anymore but I used to I mean that's
how I became famous in the first place
right you know but yeah I don't do it
anymore but it's also because there's
nothing
fun out there like this like there's no
place for this right other than this
this is the only place you could do this
but isn't it interesting to you that we
still have not like Jordan had to be
dealt with by the mainstream because the
book was too big
his effect was too large I think his
effect on the Internet is bigger than
the book I think the the YouTube videos
and the debates that he has the one that
I was telling you the recent one the
interview with GQ interesting it's
really good the woman is very smart but
she gets trounced and it's because he's
been in the trenches with this stuff for
a long time I mean he he's he's fighting
a very strange fight of dialogue and of
interpretation and of discussion and and
the freedom of intellectual sovereignty
you know there's a lot of people that
want you to think a very certain way and
use certain words and say certain things
and it doesn't matter whether or not you
are in fact racist or sexist or
homophobic or whatever there's a weird
Battle of control going on that it's a
heart of it as much as it is a battle of
inclusion and diversity and
strengthening our overall progressive
mindset there's a little bit of that too
but there's also an undeniable game
that's being played and people want to
win their scores they're being scored
there's points on the board the throwing
in new agents there's teams going at it
and whenever Jordan goes on one of these
conversations these video interviews and
there's a feminist and Jordan Peterson
like there's a fucking game going on
we're watching a soccer match we're
watching a wrestling match this is
jiu-jitsu they're playing intellectual
jiu-jitsu and Jordans really good at
tapping people he's really good at and
they're getting pissed they keep sending
in new chicks they sending that Kathy
Newman lady it's like so what you're
saying is that didn't work either she's
got devastated she got rocked and this
is what's happening over and over and
over again because whether you
appreciate what he's saying or not he
has some facts that are undeniable he
has some positions that are based on a
rich understanding of history and of
Marxism and of communism and of
a lot of the problems with people with
compelled thoughts if you're compelling
people to behave a certain way
compelling people to talk a certain way
and we're not talking about you know
compelling people to not commit crimes
or violence we're talking about weird
things like compelled pronouns and so if
I take if I take your analogy because
you brought it up that he's like doing
jujitsu yes so in some previous era and
I thought your description of the early
days of MMA was fascinating that we just
didn't know what fighting was mm-hmm so
we didn't know who would win or what
systems worked and if you think about
the mainstream media is like a Aikido
yes some system that maybe has some
valve elyda T in some very rarefied
context and it comes into
general-purpose fighting systems and
it's it's dismantled very quickly so now
we have this weird situation that we've
got this new world of kind of rule Laden
anything-goes discussions more or less
and the mainstream world doesn't want
like the Aikido world doesn't want to
acknowledge that this weird UFC type
thing is happening mm-hmm how long does
that go on it goes on for as long as it
takes this is similar do I think that
what's happening intellectually and this
is one of the reasons why I don't think
you should stop people from expressing
these bad ideas there's one thing for
stopping people to say hey we need to
kill black people stopping people said
we need to kill white people we need to
kill fill in the blank whatever the
group is yeah that's that's different
you're you're clearly stepping outside
of the realm of civilization and into
war and violence and we could all
collectively decide and we should all
collectively decide we should have
ethics together like whether it's right
or left or in the middle we should all
decide hey you can't do that
because what you're doing is you're
you're calling for violence against
someone who's not committing any vine
can I pause you right there because I
think there's a really interesting point
okay let's assume that we know that that
behavior needs to be down regulated in
some way okay you can try to silence the
person where we just physically
duct-taped them so they can't say
anything right
you know we put them in jail and we
won't don't give them access to the
media etc etc or we can shame them or we
can kind of take them aside at what
layer of this sort of communication
stack it's a very good question we
should because I think one of the things
that we haven't done is to positively
say we agree with you that the speech is
offensive and it is potentially
dangerous but we think it should be down
regulated differently than the deep
platforming option
well the deep platforming option the
real issue is there's only a few
different avenues for these people to
express themselves publicly okay right
and the the argument that's really
strange is should these be regulated
like a utility or should they be thought
of as private businesses get to decide
what's on their their channel
essentially like it's almost like a a
private NBC that everyone can broadcast
what if it's none of the above
what if the problem is we're trying to
pretend is it like a dinner party is
that the public square is it the utility
and it's none of these things I think
these ideas what I was discussing that
like there's there's a reason why good
ideas and bad ideas should go to war is
the same reason why even though I kind
of knew that most kung-fu was bullshit
before the UFC I want those guys to get
in there and try oh you got some death
touch hey come on in I want to only
introduce you to a guy you know this is
his name's Cain Velasquez and you're
gonna try your death touch and he's just
gonna arrest with you the ground beat
your fucking brains in okay right but
that's not gonna happen cuz you know
death touch good luck and you let them
Duke it out and that is the that's what
the other ideas but it is a little no no
no but but when you deep platform people
that's when it's not out I agree with
you but what I'm trying to get at is
that it is a state I hadn't really
thought about it
the extent to which Jordan is the only
one of us that they've really gone after
like this well he's first of all he
became famous from this right this is
the the battle was wow he emerged he
merged from this battle over the use of
compelled pronouns for various genders
like the very similar to breath 78
different genders similar but not okay
okay the difference is Brett's position
he comes from a different place the way
they were going at him was so much more
unreasonable they were saying right away
that what he has to do is leave work
because he's white they were basically
saying a racist thing and everyone
universally acknowledges his racist
except for these super lefties who
thought that it made sense because in
their mind every white person is somehow
or another guilty of at least at the
very least using your privilege to
advance the world at the into the
negative impact of people of color and
people of other ethnicities so they
decided that they are going to have a
day of exclusion and instead of this day
of absence having black people and
people of color stay home they were
gonna kick white people out so it became
an aggressive act instead of an act of
appreciation it became an act of
punishment or an act of exclusion and by
people that are clearly out of their
fuckin mind that was also part of the
problem is their their arguments are
incoherent you would see that fucking
stupid president of the university
standing in front of those kids and they
told them to put his hands down because
he was threatening their you're scaring
us you're making violent gestures with
your hands so he puts his hands down and
they start laughing okay
this is nonsense now you're in little
kids yet little kids running it or the
flies on a grand scale in a State
University and it's all I mean this is a
public university right I mean they get
funding right this is all chaos nobody
agrees they got baseball bats they're
looking for him if he's coming back to
the school the kids form these vigilante
groups with weapons over what like who's
threatening you like what is happening
but you need weapons is that the big
story there was the non reporting what
do you mean well the New York Times
Washington Post all of these major
organs NPR they didn't report they
didn't want to touch the story well this
is what this is my my big theory here is
every outfit that has a a grand
narrative cannot report the news that
goes counter-narrative so racism by
blacks against whites cannot be reported
by any outfit that believes that racism
is impossible by blacks against whites
that's such a preposterous position the
idea that racism is exclusive to any
group well but the redeafination the
redefinition can suck a fat dick it's a
stupid read mo that's true this idea
that the only way you can be racist is
if you have power over that other group
that's nonsense every human beings act
as individuals they always have power
over each other you have power to
intimidate you have power to isolate you
have power if you what kind of using
about this is is that there is no
pretense of consistency I mean on that
side of the aisle it's like we're gonna
throw out the following 17 completely
contradictory rules and then we'll tell
you which rule is operative in any given
moment so you know I was gonna throw out
this concept of the Hilbert problems for
social justice so one of them is you
cannot understand me because my
experience is too different and you must
understand me because so important yeah
right or we are all similar enough that
any deviation from 50/50 shows you the
amount of sexism in a workforce and we
are all so different that once you
include women in previously male
occupations you will see a great benefit
because of diversity of opinion well
these are all these self contradictory
couplets right that you have to agree to
well that's the weird thing is who
assumed that I just buy all of your
stuff I think we've made a terrible
tactical error we fought these bad ideas
rather than saying maybe we should just
accept all of your bad ideas and then
show you what kind of weird world no yes
no no no no you can't do that because
they don't make sense you can't say oh
yeah they make sense and how do I know
when you're serious well but that if I
just let those through and those things
fail but that's my point is is that by
showing the internal this is in
mathematics we call this reductio ad
absurdum that once you take on
many different points you show the
conflicts showing that those things
can't all be true
there's no way in which if I accept all
of your ideas
I can run anything so you know take this
thing about the trans exclusion from
Victoria's Secret right well you didn't
hear about this Oh God so the idea is
that the Victoria's Secret lingerie
division head had to step down where
there was a scandal in the background
that somebody had said we don't actually
want trans people walking the Victoria's
Secret runway right and so very
interesting you have a company that is
dedicated to the commercial exploitation
of humans as sexual objects for the
privilege of the male gaze and now
you're angry that it doesn't include
trans into that exploited class so just
without without getting into whether
this makes like good economic sense or
anything
there's just the issue of self
contradiction but isn't that a
reductionist view of what Victoria
Secrets is isn't it possible that a
woman can feel empowered and sexy if
she's wearing lingerie and it's not just
to the exploiting of the male gaze that
it's just they that she appreciates
looking attractive wonderful so take
that okay right exactly so the idea is
that you're both going to say that
that's a positive female empowerment
issue right and it's a terrible male
exploitation as you at the same time is
it a terrible exploitation issue like
what if a guy likes what if women decide
universally they like guys who wear
leopard skin underwear and guys start
wearing leopard skin tighty whitey
underwear well this is sexual slut but
it but yes but that's the difference
between that and women wearing lingerie
if with women wear a lingerie and they
do it because they like to be you know
in space dad and they like to be more
true that's what we're to accentuate
their attract so than the sexual self
objectification is an interesting issue
of empowerment where is an issue of
oppression it could certainly be well
that's a woman's health should take that
take that all on why does it have to be
exploitation though that's just a
question but what I'm trying to say is
you've taken you what some point you've
made too many arguments there's this
concept called the principle of
explosion in
the principle of explosion says if you
can get one contradiction through
airport security you can blow up the
universe that as soon as you allow a
single contradiction in the unity of
knowledge everything can be proven right
so everything becomes meaningless so the
game in some sense in mathematics is
frequently to say well let's take all of
those beautiful things that you believe
so you've just enunciated some I have
enunciated some you throw them all in
instead of saying what's true and what
isn't true you say are these compatible
and these ideas are clearly incompatible
so for example one of the tricks that I
use is to look at advertising for women
to women and what phrases get used so if
you use the phrase turn heads this
summer in quotes and put it into a
search engine you'll find all sorts of
revealing outfits that are intended to
court the male gaze you say well maybe
that's not really the male gaze then you
put in a phrase like make him drool and
that will be used to market to women and
so this issue about can we at least get
to a point where we're talking about the
internal contradictions of your position
like I don't even want to get into what
my position is the first thing that's
scaring me is that you've said so many
things so strongly and so dogmatically
and this doesn't have to be about gender
it could be about race it could be about
class but once once you've said too many
things then I can say look I don't see
any way of squaring all of your
positions hmm
it's not it doesn't even have to do with
me right I think that's where we haven't
gone to yet so you think letting them
come up with as many preposterous things
as possible and then once it gets to a
position where they the the ideas
contradict each other
expose that well that's that's my point
which is once you've told me all of your
principles okay then I'm gonna say great
I'm confused
do you feel that I have to understand
you or that I can't understand you
because I don't know which is operative
in this situation tell me the rule how I
decide which principle that you've
stated governed this situation right and
if one last point about that
I don't want to have to refer to you
where you say well you've brought you
bring me each individual situation and I
will tell you which principle is
operative in which principle is
inoperative that doesn't work I want you
to list your principles and list your
mechanisms for resolving the conflicts
within your principles and then once
you've done that we can actually
evaluate what you're saying but at the
moment it requires you as an Oracle to
tell me which of your many contradict
your seemingly contradictory positions
is operative in every particular case so
for example we did that one with the
person who is the quantum ex-muslim
trans trans you know yeah everything
going on which is operative the person
with Makela phobia which is a extremely
rare psychological condition or the
person who appears to be deep in system
self you know some radical self
actualization presence there even a
person who wears that crazy makeup
should be able to wear whatever they
want it's nothing wrong with it you
should be able to dress like Paul
Stanley from kiss if that's your thing
assume that that's true but what if for
example is a heterosexual male you don't
want to watch The Crying Game at the
Victoria's Secret runway show do you
think that wait a minute do you really
think that Victoria Secrets runway shows
for the heterosexual male in some sense
yes what guys you ever watch the
Victoria Secret Show that's what the
save it no no I mean that there's
something between a fantasy of Victoria
Secret as a senior executive recently
told Vogue that trans models don't
belong in the fantasy a Victoria's
Secret Fashion Show well you know that's
that's on him you know he wants to be
just because he says doesn't mean it's
true I get if you looked at the graph of
male to female viewers of a Victoria's
Secrets I have no idea it would be like
a few prepubescent boys and the vast
majority of women and maybe some gay
guys but that's it is that right sure
it's got to be without fuck is sitting
around it's on in an hour
what are you doing Oh again some popcorn
ready for the Victoria Secret Fashion
Show
Doug's coming over and Mike we're gonna
drool to TV that fuck out of here is
porn and then there's everything else
everything else is for chicks okay
runway shit I don't know the single guy
out there watching runway shit it's like
remember when playboy had Playgirl that
was for gay biggsy okay dudes it's not
for chicks all right they don't want to
see that and we don't want to see
runways we're not we're not here for
runways we get bored easy a bunch of
chicks walking around their underwear
yeah I think you're calling it very you
may be right about who the audience is I
have no idea on the demographics I've
never watched one of these in my life
but it's not the case that I believe
that male the male gaze is nowhere to be
found here because it's a very weird
thing that the female is largely buying
an amplifier for something that is
supposed to excite a male but it's it's
a little bit to me like the female is
the magician buying magic supplies at a
store for the audience right sure sure
that's a good way of looking at it I
don't think there's the male gaze is
absent I just don't buy his
interpretation of that it's a fantasy
for men that's ruined with trans men or
trans women I don't I don't have it I
don't have a dog in that fight seems
silly seems silly it's like if you don't
want transgender people to be in there
you just have to say you can't say it
ruins the fantasy you just say I won't
wake hiring people that have vaginas I
don't know do whatever you want like you
could like there's certain jobs if you
go to Chippendales like our trans women
showing up a trans men are they at
Chippendales where they're down there
because they don't have a dick and but
they're all jacked and they look like a
man is this what women want to see and
are they transphobic if they don't want
to see that right if women go to it you
know one of those all-male revue shows
and it's all trans men but they're
heterosexual and they're not really into
trans men are they all driven anything
phobic yeah so what I'm trying to get at
is there's a hierarchy like I'm not that
interested in this in the particulars of
Victoria's Secret's profitability and
what their statements are right what I'm
more interested in is you've got you've
enunciated so many
there's so many different principles at
work even as to what should govern in a
conflict that you won't tell me well
okay when these two things is two
beautiful things that you've said
actually lying conflict how do you
resolve the conflicts and it seems to be
well why don't you consult us on every
single one of these and we'll tell you
you know case by case right and that
can't work because what I want to know
is I don't want to appoint you as an
Oracle I want you to state what your
positions are I want you to state how
you harmonize them and then we're having
a conversation but as long as I have to
keep going to you and your crazy
definitions and your well this is
operative on alternate Tuesdays then it
doesn't work I completely see your point
however you can't give ground
you can't give ground a nonsense because
that ground was never get back you're
never getting impact if you allow them
to establish certain ridiculous
principles and rules that are
contradictory to each other they'll come
up with a reason why they make sense no
no you don't allow them to put it into
the work force you say look before we
put it into the work force let's just
understand the seventeen different
things that you've said are absolutes
well you're basically doing then what
Jordan does and every single one of
these debates you're letting people lay
out their idea and then you shoot them
down and you decide what's what's
logical and what's he illogical right I
think that's that's the UFC of ideas
right and this is why it's important to
let these shitty ideas into the match
why do we still have so much caught up
in the Aikido League and the kung-fu
Lee's because it sounds good people like
the idea that you don't have to learn
much you can just go in there with a
death touch fuck people up they don't
want to think that all you have to
practice for 10,000 hours you have to
sprawl and work on your leg kicks in
work so maybe this public shaming is
death touch well debating these I think
honestly and I'm not trying to blow
Jordans horn any more than I already
have but I think what he does is very
important because he is one of the few
that engages in these people in these
very public forums right in these long
forum debates where they go to war with
ideas and these are way better they get
their conversations cuz because he's
fucking good at well they want to chop
them they're not picking you so much
because I'm friendly
I'm not as like I'm not as combative as
he is so I said I'm also not as smart as
he is and I'm also not as I'm not I
don't have your credentials yeah I don't
have the credentials that he has like
when he's the University of Toronto
professor my PhD when he's going to war
with these people there they're throwing
out valiant warriors to die at his sword
what did you happen to watch with bread
and Richard Dawkins Chicago what
happened they appeared on the stage for
the first time well and oppose each
other oh yeah really on religion oh well
as Dawkins now religious no no no
Dawkins is staunchly in that a sort of
new atheist aggressive God as I panicked
because I know he had a stroke okay guys
you know I'm saying oh yeah I thought
your brother was an atheist as well yeah
but Brett doesn't think that that
religion is a virus it's not
parasitizing license he believes that
religion is actually an adaptation and
the weird thing was is he said look
there's young Dawkins and there's old
Dawkins and young Dawkins came up with
these two powerful ideas the idea that
the meme the unit of ideation is is a
gene like object he also came up with
the idea of the extended phenotype so
when you talked about that ant mound
that you're excavating that ant mound is
in some sense part of the ants strategy
it's such a it's so deeply tied in that
you have to consider the ant mound as
part of the ants system because it can't
exist without that complicated
underground city right right and so what
he said was okay if I use these two
concepts that memes are like jeans and
that jeans can throw off a bad meme
instantly so genes memes have to ride on
a gene and they can't parasitize it too
much and you also have this inclusive
fitness which is that maybe religions
code travel with us and allow us to
out-compete those who don't have them
because they seem to be found everywhere
they're so prevalent right you have to
if you looked at it objectively not
looked at it in terms of it you know how
you feel about cult-like behavior and
people's susceptibility to influence if
you just looked at
objectively from another dimension you'd
go well clearly this is a part of being
a successful person about it
exactly so beretta Brett and Dawkins met
and I think Dawkins had this kind of
reaction like oh crap I'm meeting an
ultra Darwinist who's read my work taken
it seriously and is feeding it back in
and saying you you Richard Dawkins in
your younger years established ideas who
when that when those ideas logical
consequences are explored it completely
negates your late-life hatred for
religion because it reveals it to be an
adaptation rather than a parasitize
ation of the human species you know the
real problem that I've always had with
Dawkins and his take on religion is not
that he's wrong or they're right it's
his anger that he has when he's talking
to people that believe yeah he sets he
sets up the kind of like heavy conflict
that you know the way people interact
with each other right is very the
reactions are very dependent upon the
attitude that a person has when they go
into this interaction you know what two
people meet on the street one person the
one person meets that person says the
same words and they wind up hugging
another person meets that person and has
a fistfight right like what what is
what's the difference well there's a lot
of it is the way you approach people a
lot of is the way you accept people's
ideas the way you communicate with them
the way you allow them to fully express
themselves without judgment and he
doesn't he doesn't buy anything he feels
like there's a war going on and he's got
to shut down religion as quickly as
possible that's thing he wanted to know
so good no all right he wanted to
fashion science into a cudgel that was
maximally efficient for beating the crap
out of her lid that's a great way to put
and what Brett did is to say actually
your scientific work goes in the exact
opposite direction the reason I brought
it up was it was one of these unexpected
occurrences that when you have a meeting
of these things and this is your point
about the UFC is that the mixed martial
arts thing is hey we don't know what's
gonna work we don't know what's gonna I
wouldn't nobody knows anything yet and
grad
we came to understand that there were
certain systems that were hyper
effective and that even those could get
you know you were making the point
earlier about Brazilian Jujitsu didn't
it keep advancing at the same level once
we understood the role of all of these
different systems in advancing fighting
so the question that I'm having
repeatedly is what kept Brett and
Dawkins
for example from having that meeting
where I think Dawkins probably didn't
fully understand what he was getting
into when he agreed to appear with an
evolutionary theorist on stage but do
you don't you think that he's just very
confident in his ideas he's very
confident his intellectual capabilities
he's been doing these type of debates
and shutting down these secular peor
these these people that are I mean from
various religions right I mean from he's
he's had these debates with people from
Judaism from Christianity who's been
it's part of his career right yeah I
mean and even what the fuck's his name
the the Indian fella who everybody makes
fun of what the fuck's his name Dinesh
D'Souza no the other guy the one the
this the quantum guy that's always using
Deepak Chopra yeah that guy that guy's
constantly using inappropriate quantum
words right throws quantum into fucking
vegetable soup and tries to make it to
make sense he's used a lot of world
salad right you know and I mean I've
seen him debate him too I mean there's
you know you you like these videos of
the the fake martial arts guys yeah and
they they they show up for the challenge
because they've actually bought it right
sandwich dupe Deepak you well this is
what I'm trying to get at isn't it
interesting that in general the people
who say you know immigration is a pure
good there is no connection between
Islam and terror the only people who
oppose free trade or protectionist these
people know enough not to want to
trounce us because what they're saying
is is wrong right mm-hm and they're
expert enough to know that they are
they've got a secret five point you know
exploding heart technique or something
and they know it's nonsense and so they
won't actually they do
well then why not I don't why don't they
want why don't they want in I don't
think they I don't think they
necessarily do actually believe that
they're wrong I do think that some of
these people that are like super
progressive and very very committed to
some of these may be illogical positions
on some of these ideas are afraid of
conflict though and I think that's one
of the reasons why they shy towards
progressivism towards socialism I don't
think they like conflict
I don't know no they'd like to get
together and scream at people okay
here's what they like together get
together in large groups okay say we
know where you sleep you fucking racist
you fucking piece of shit but one on one
they're cowards okay like this is this
is the type of person that would think
it's a good idea to show up and bang on
someone's we hear them in their home
that type of person is not the type of
person that would that looks forward to
on an even battlefield engaging someone
one on one and just just open
communication that's not what they're
doing what they're doing is trying to
silence people scare people and timid a
people they're bullies intellectual
bullies people are bullies are almost
always insecure they're almost always
scared so this is why there's been very
few people that are jumping forward to
try to go to intellectual war would
wouldn't it Rachel Maddow or Linda
Sarsour one in I mean they're pretty
intact you're dealing with two very
different types of human beings a Rachel
Maddow is one thing Linda Sarsour is a
very very seriously religious person
who's got some you know very deep
beliefs as far as Islam she wears the
hijab I mean just as two totally
different things I don't know buddy but
if I listed a group of people like the
late-night comedians there's this very
weird thing that they all seem to
believe the same like there was a secret
meeting that they all agreed to a bunch
of stuff that I I want to see the
conference proceedings like what's how
so well just that they all kind of know
that the Republicans are all horrible
the Democrats are basically good people
that they all know that climate science
is settled science I mean there's some
that they have these pretty much of open
borders or a great thing
and that everybody who doesn't believe
in that is only so is only not believing
it because of xenophobia right whatever
these set of beliefs are I don't see
these guys in open discussion
particularly you know two hours long
well I don't think it's a that could
could you get Stephen Colbert Seth
Meyers in here and have a discussion
my guess is really yeah I'm sure I'm
sure I'm sure they'd be I'm sorry
they're scared of having discussions
with people but I don't see them in a
very they'd have to be very measured
because they lose their job it's not
it's not that simple like they make a
tremendous amount of money right if they
came and said anything that could be
misconstrued or misinterpreted even not
even actually being something that's
actually transphobic or actually
homophobic are actually xenophobic if
they said anything that could be taken
out of context and put in a small clip
and then sent out and it goes viral
they're done look at megyn kelly yeah
megyn kelly had a question about why
can't you wear makeup to look like Diana
Ross why can't you well there's some
good reasons why you can't there's some
good racial history behind blackface
however why is it that she can't even
ask a question without losing her job
like that's it pull the plug you we have
to make a fuckin statement we aboard
islands but dude that's exactly what you
said about about the whole Kung Fu thing
that is it only can exist in a protected
context well first of all someone like
megan kelly can only exist in a
protected contest with all these people
and protected contest stephen colbert is
like gotta be one of the fastest minds
on the planet that everybody i know
who's smart who's done his show says he
just thinks faster than you did well I'm
sure he's very smart guy I'm sure this
guy's feet okay but but he's also a
Catholic devout yeah yeah yes yeah
doesn't bother me
bothers me doesn't bother me an
organization of kid fuckers well well
how come he's not speaking out against
all those kids getting fucked well that
if you're a Catholic yeah like I was
raised Catholic I mean I'm not saying
that he is I'm not saying the people he
no Tsar but this is a giant problem with
that organization but but that's not
what's not bothering me what's not
bother with baby well I want to make
sure that we're talking I think we're
about to talk past each other so
wondering it back okay
I think you just gave me an answer yes
he can't appear in this kind of a
context because that might come up and
he needs to be in a world with much more
restricted rules where someone can't say
it's an organization of kid fucker
that's right yeah it's not just more
restricted world that that's the reason
why that has been able to survive that's
what I'm training yeah that people don't
talk about that but but is the idea that
this is such a restore point about
Aikido was if you happen to be unarmed
and attacked by a man with a sword this
might have some value it would have some
value of someone to attack you in a very
specific what's right didn't understand
okay these are the ideas that that's a
very restricted rule set on which to
fight it yes so now maybe what you just
said to me which could open this whole
thing up is that all of these people can
only apply their ability to have a back
and forth of ideas if the rules are
heavily restricted I don't necessarily
think that's the case I think they could
do it in other ways I think all of them
are operating under this rule system
because this rule system is how they get
paid but I think Seth Meyers a very
smart guy I know Jimmy Kimmel he's a
very smart guy they could do whatever
they want he could do a podcast he could
do anything he could operate into any
and any genre I believe and I think I
would imagine the same with Colbert I
mean I think Jimmy Fallon same thing but
when they're forced into that box and
this is a hundred million dollar a year
box you know it feels good in their box
it's fucking velvet walls and you get to
drive a fat Mercedes and live in Beverly
Hills to you decide to stay in that box
right maybe their mind is in that box
maybe they're eight on a regular basis
maybe there's not any restriction for
them at all because this is how they
operate all the time so I did the show
with Jordan and Ben Shapiro on Dave's
set right before Ben went on real
Time with Bill Maher and Ben was kind of
excited to do Bill Maher and said yeah I
don't think he's gonna rough me up but
you know I think he's gonna be a
gentleman I think he's one of us and
then when Ben sat down with Bill we saw
this thing that was very we were sort of
hoping because bill is kind of the most
towards us of anybody in that kind of
mainstream environment mm-hmm and what I
saw which I hadn't really appreciated
was that bill was not doing this kind of
open discussion thing a lot of his tone
was leading like surely you're not gonna
say the dominant huh you know it wasn't
just purely saying are you saying that
right it was all of this emotional
instruction yes and it was clear that to
me that when I saw a ban on that in that
context that there were only a few hours
separating the two appearances and that
the characteristics of that environment
and where Bill's show is the most like
this show that it's just too different
you're not it's not really the same
ecosystem and you couldn't have an open
debate unless it cuts off after seven
minutes and the host is in control well
bill doesn't have any time that's well
this is part of the problem there are
the terms of they have a very restricted
format he was doing a conversation with
Steve Bannon and he was on Sam Harris's
podcast he was talking about it he said
that one of the problems was he got to
this point I was like I was I wanted to
ask him more stuff but I ran out of time
right and I heard that I was like what
the fuck kind of ancient system are you
operating later that you run out of time
but let's take let's take him at his
word well he definitely did run out of
time but assume that that's true instead
that Bill Maher said hey guys I want to
I want the following situation I want to
continue to do real-time in the same
format that it's always been done right
but I want to have a podcast like Rogen
where we take as much time as we need
and I don't think those two things play
together oh they're fine together yeah I
think together but you hear that they're
not well here's the thing he went on
Sam's podcast and I enjoyed him more
than I enjoy him on his show I know
because he had checkers didn't look the
same way on Dave Rubin show though he
looked totally different how do you look
I didn't say it oh my god you got to see
it
you know Tucker you know I'm having my
own weird issues where I used to you
know my previous position was that Fox
News is just propaganda and the Tucker
was in that old crossfire situation
way back when Tucker was like opening up
as a different person saying you have
the freedom you're the new I'm still
stuck in the old well he must really
feel that it may really feel like he is
like look that is what you have to do if
you want to survive on Fox News and
again it's a velvet coffin you're in
there it's beautiful yes you're getting
paid shit loads of money but you don't
necessarily have the freedom to express
first of all you don't have long-form
free right and you don't have the
freedom to completely express yourself
across the border like you could you you
can't look at the left side ia's and say
you know what I really like the idea of
universal healthcare right I really
liked the idea of universal basic income
I really out like the idea of paying for
people's school Joe I think you and I
actually have a really interesting
difference of opinion yeah I think your
opinion is there's nothing preventing
you from staying in the velvet coffin
and doing this style of podcast and my
guess is I'm not saying that okay I'm
always saying that with Bill Maher I
think Tucker Carlson probably can't do
that I think of Tucker Carlson Colbert
do it yes I don't think so I think he
could I don't think he would though I
think he out of all of them and I think
he's brilliant don't get me wrong and
when I said he's from an organization of
kid fuckers it's not him I mean but he's
a part of the Cathy you could do semi
you could do any one of these people
they're all bright athil you think is a
big thing I mean it's a big thing in
terms of first of all the actual reality
of the organization and what they've
done to protect people that have
molested children it's unprecedented
right it's also something that I was
raised in I mean I was Catholic I went
to Catholic school I don't think that he
wants to do that sort of wild country
open type internet show I think he
enjoys wearing a tie and doing a
straight up talk show like the Johnny
Carson show or the Jay Leno Show and I
think he's very very good at it and I
don't think there's anything wrong with
that I think a lot of people like that
that's one preference and I understand
that but I think that's him I might be
wrong I'm just assuming there's a dragon
to do different
or what imagine that if you tried to do
both of these things you would be
revealed you'd be caught between two
worlds where if like I actually think
that a lot of these ideas would collapse
just the way kung fu collapsed I think
you're probably right
I think if you had two people having
these conversations in long form instead
of those CNN three windows we're just
battling it out for six minutes and then
you know everybody's yelling over
everybody that is the single worst way
to argue ideas I think there's no Gracie
challenge there's not well Jordan
Peterson is kind of doing his own thing
with a challenge that because somebody's
gender
yeah and he's the only one they want yes
well which is which is I think boys
crazy of the intellectual voice crazy
[Laughter]
he's out there tapping wrestlers yeah I
mean I think not legitimately you know
he's worked his way past that kung fu
people and he's now on to like Olympic
wrestlers like they're throwing at him
this this latest woman was very good
yeah she's much better than that Kathy
Newman lady she didn't make any of these
ridiculous straw man arguments she she
came at him with her positions and her
points it was interesting I think what
you're saying is true for everybody
except Bill Maher I think Bill Maher
would hold his positions in podcast form
and I think he would just have more time
to expand on them and I base this on him
being on Sam Harris show and I found it
to be very good it was the 10th
anniversary of Religulous and he was
excellent on there I think he could do
it but I think he's also he can say fuck
you he got in trouble for dropping an N
bomb on his show in a joking form I mean
he's a different cat the whole thing is
very different with him he's on HBO
but when Ice Cube came to him and said
you can't do that it was painful to me
because I was positive that he had a
carlin style attitude about that word
that's tough because in this environment
again that's where he makes his living
he butters his bread over at HBO and if
you wanted to have a long-form
conversation with that guy even on a
podcast and he didn't have an HBO show
that's
one thing but if you have an HBO show
you have to have a totally different
attitude because one wrong you're
walking a tightrope but this is what I'm
trying to get it is that we are too
dangerous in some sense to play with
because he Belva Sask talked we beat
bill and I actually went back and forth
on an email about something yeah I
dropped the ball but no he would do
anybody's podcast I don't think that's
the case he could do his own podcast as
well and I agree that he would be the
one most likely to be able to do both he
could do it yeah he could do it I think
all of them could do it I think Seth
Meyers could do it too I think Jimmy
Kimmel could probably do it as good or
better than any of them Jimmy absolutely
could do it I mean the only thing that's
holding him back look he's a man of his
ideas he's not gonna he's probably the
least likely to alter or manipulate his
ideas of anybody that's ever done one of
those late-night talk show hosts
he's just operating inside a format
where you don't swear and you have a
certain amount of time and you try to be
funny and you say insightful stuff but
he's a very ethical guy and he's also a
very very smart guy and he's also very
rich he's got a shitload of fuck you
money right and I think Jimmy Kimmel
could do it easily I think a lot of
people could do it easily and I think
they're gonna have to I think some some
point along the line they're gonna
realize that the restrictions that
they're operating under unless they
really enjoy that format I don't think
those formats are going to be there that
long I think those formats are a lot
like sitcoms like they're slowly
starting to vanish you know for everyone
Roseanne show that ends up which is kind
of nostalgic and you know that runs into
its own disaster right how many new
sitcoms are there that everybody's aware
of shit it used to be every time there
was a new sitcom whether it was friends
or you know fill in the blank whatever
the show Seinfeld there was everybody
was talking about these new sitcoms
right nobody fuckin talks about sitcoms
anymore well this is the you know this
is the thing I took on this morning on
Twitter which was Dave Rubin and Brett
Weinstein myself we're talking about
this phenomena of very high follower
counts with psycho low engagement
oh yeah that's fake but those are fake
followers that's what that is well it
may be but it's a lot of it but it's
very interesting that we're talking
about getting rid of visible
follower counts and getting rid of likes
who's saying that
apparently there's discussion about Jack
may have floated some trial balloons
that Twitter is going to try to improve
the level of conversation and by getting
rid of follower counts right and
removing likes do you imagine thinking
you're going to improve the level of
conversation by getting rid of a heart
that you and someone's like the artists
but it's a heart
yep it's literally a heart but its feet
but you're clicking on a heart yes on
Instagram and on Twitter it's a heart
it's a like here's your little heart I
love you I'm gonna get rid of love Jack
come on Jack gonna get rid of love
you're terrifying umid being Jeff why
what what's terrifying about because I'm
seeing you blowing kisses in my general
direction I'm remembering all the videos
I've watched where you attack some sort
of a punching bag with those vicious
spinning elbow or something I just think
Nick okay listen you can't we're talking
about ideas here you can't no I want to
get out all that stuff later one of my
midlife crises suck with with some
instruction for I think we gotta end
this okay we've done four hours and ten
are you kidding me show you what they
said we've been saying for a while we
are rethinking everything about the
service to ensure we are incentivizing
healthy conversation that includes the
like button we are in the early stages
of the work and have no plans to share
right now and this is in response to
telegraph the Telegraph saying Twitter
to remove the like tool and a bid to
improve the quality of debate yeah I
think something really weird is going on
well I mean what is the quality of
debate and by whose definition I mean
and you're not gonna them you're
definitely not going to change the way
people interact with each other
you're just not people interact with
each other because they're anonymous
they have incentive to talk shit it's
fun okay so the one thing I could ask as
we close this thing out is if we could
plug not only my Twitter which is my
main thing but I'm trying to diversify
into Instagram and YouTube should I get
shut off Twitter are you worried about
getting shut off I'm always worried but
you don't say anything inflammatory like
would you you're very logical and
reasonable guy so you think it's really
gotten to that point well yeah I'm
actually worried that by being logical
and reasonable I have more
a risk because the things that I'm
saying we're also recognizing
intellectual and very left-wing your
progressive yeah so why would they shut
you off oh I think because they're much
more worried about a progressive who
says that the current progressiveness is
absolute stupidity that's much more
dangerous than some right winger who's
always against anything that's
progressive interesting there's a war
foot you love that kind of stuff you
love that cloak and dagger type shit
don't ya yeah one part of the
ineffectual dork with watch your stuff I
don't see ineffectual international web
yeah that's what I call it listen I have
to I can't call myself a part of the
dark web that's just too ridiculous from
a man in my position okay we'll see you
at the semi that leaves one of the
thousand people that speak the humor
across the lands listen this is
effortless yeah I could do this I did
that no idea was for hours but flew by
it was awesome all right we can I just
give the the names please do all right I
think I am it's 5:10 Jesus Eric or
Weinstein on I'm now I'm Eric or
Weinstein at Twitter I'm Eric Weinstein
PhD I think on Instagram and on my
Instagram I linked you on the Instagram
okay so I'm an eric tarr weinstein an
Instagram and I'm on YouTube
Eric Weinstein PhD yeah and if you can't
find his Instagram I linked it on my
Instagram alright Joe thanks for having
me with you my friend
lots of fun alright bye you fucks
[Applause]
[Music]